Do you know that the flowers of crabapples and quince fruits are both called "haitang" in Chinese? Unknown to many people, haitang flowers are a big, complex and diverse family. Despite having the same word "haitang" in their names, they may come from different genera and have varied fruits. According to "Qun Fang Pu," an agricultural book written by Wang Xiangjin from the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644), there are mainly four types of haitang flowers, namely xifu haitang (Malus × micromalus), chuisi haitang (Malus halliana), tiegeng haitang (Chaenomeles speciosa) and mugua haitang (Chaenomeles cathayensis). In reality, there are even more types of haitang flowers. Among them, xifu haitang, or the midget crabapple, is the most famous one. It is said that it got the name because the flower grew in Xifu, an area west of Chang'an City (nowadays Xi'an City in Shaanxi Province), during the Jin Dynasty (266-420). The xifu haitang is currently the city flower of Baoji City, northwest China's Shaanxi Province, inheriting the cultural heritage. Every March to April, xifu haitang welcomes its blooming period, which often lasts over 20 days. You can see their vibrant flowers and leaves at the same time, unlike yulan, whose flowers bloom before the leaves. About 'China in Bloom' Flowering is not just about plants. It's also about how people approach their lives. Today, it has become a popular outdoor activity across China. In some places, flower-gazing has become a tourist activity and, thus, an economic drive. As the Two Sessions, the most important event on China's political calendar, is currently underway, CGTN Nature presents a new series "China in Bloom" to showcase the beauty of the country in spring by introducing some of the most popular flowers in the country as well as the stories of how flowers contribute to people's lives. For more: China in Bloom: Discover plum blossoms in spring China in Bloom: The Yulan Magnolia as an envoy of spring China in Bloom: Discover camellia- the triumphant flower China in Bloom: A symbol of love and well-being, a sign of spring 'China in Bloom': Enjoy snow-white pear blossoms in spring 'China in Bloom': Cherry blossoms (All images via CFP) (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at nature@cgtn.com.)