Editor's note: March 2023 marks the 10th anniversary when the concept of a "Community with a Shared Future for Mankind" was introduced by China. To commemorate this occasion, CGTN is collaborating with the Institute for a Community with Shared Future from Communication University of China, to invite researchers specialized in the field from around the world to contribute their visions. Maryam Raza is the deputy director of Pakistan Research Center for a Community with Shared Future (PRCCSF), Islamabad. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. In the pursuit of common development and peace, countries tend to propose many projects and ideas, which help them in the long-term. Nonetheless, only a few leaders and states can practically implement multipronged policies to get desired goals. China under the leadership of President Xi Jinping has progressed in every dimension. The new narratives have benefited the global community. The idea of building a community with a shared future for mankind has been a success vis-à-vis its achievements, interpretation, and improving bilateral relations between countries. March 2023 marks the 10th anniversary of this idea, shedding light to review past accomplishments and set the foundation for future aspirations. The socioeconomic and political dynamics of the world have been transformed. The vision for a shared future has brought positive changes in international relations and presented a new discourse of study. The analysis of 10 years demonstrates that China has integrated countries on one platform while defying discrimination. In today's time, states are interlinked and depend on each other to an extent never witnessed before. We humans, live in the same global village, in the same time and space at the junction of history and reality. Thus, we are heading toward a community with a shared future. These realities allow us to cooperate in the areas of mutual interests and negate protectionism, hegemonism, power politics, pessimism and any form of discrimination. It we look at a bigger canvas and outcomes, these narratives are in dire need. In this era, non-traditional security challenges, i.e., climate change, pandemics and environmental hazards have occurred more frequently than expected. These global menaces require global solutions with a holistic approach. China has offered many opportunities for nations to learn from each other in mitigating the daunting impacts of these threats. Moreover, it has also improved people-to-people contacts and cultural exchanges to improve mutual understanding, perceptions, and enhanced public support/confidence in the Chinese leadership and its projects, i.e., China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative and Global Development Initiative. This idea stands committed to a rational, coordinated and balanced approach which covers major aspects of state-relations in terms of culture linkages and politics. In a short span, the shared future has attained much global attention. Accordingly, the right principles can promote joint learning and exchanges. China is a role model country for other countries with good governance and policy implementation. China has also established various think tanks and institutions worldwide to translate this vision into practice and build a bridge among global scholars, academics, experts, social communities, and students. These expansions have strengthened the core of a shared future and depicted China making new positive transformations and helping marginalized communities. The concept has enhanced cultural and academic ties between China and Pakistan over the past decade. Since the launch of building a community with a shared future, Pakistan has promoted it to many segments of society and fostered cultural cooperation with China. Meanwhile, the Pakistan Research Center for a Community with Shared Future (PRCCSF), Islamabad was honored an award of the best center for the second time in a row from China. The center has worked tirelessly to enhance cooperation with its global counterparts and make the world a much better place. Through the joint efforts of the Chinese and Pakistani experts, the world is now more aware about the prudent visions of President Xi Jinping. Hence, both countries can maintain a hallmark of success for the next decade and set more targets under the shared future. China has entered a decisive stage to construct a moderately prosperous society in all respects. Guided by the vision of innovative and open development for all structural reforms, China will foster coordination for transferring this idea to generations with huge success for the future. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)