A small kiwi can be squeezed not only into kiwi juice, but also into kiwi jam. Zhang yuanlong, a farmer lives in a village of Hunan Province, China, which is underdeveloped because the village is blocked by mountains. He was unable to do heavy work due to the injuries he suffered as a child. The burden of a family has put a lot of pressure on Zhang. He used to plaster walls and was a temporary worker. While earning money, he also had to take care of the family, but work did not improve his life. Later, with the help of the local government, Zhang Yuanlong learnt farming. After training, Zhang Yuanlong brought back practical farming and planting techniques. After examining the geography of his hometown, he decided to plant kiwifruit and develop an alpine ecological green industry. After saving some money, he also raised ducks and pigs, and began bee keeping. Kiwifruit is rich in nutritional value and contains abundant vitamin C and it does not have strict requirements for climatic soil conditions and is highly adaptable. Currently, kiwifruit is a landmark of Hunan. After expansion, Zhang also set up a cooperative with other farmers to do a live webcast. Through the internet's e-commerce platform, they sell kiwi fruit to users and become an influencer. “We are now very confident. With the help of the government, we have found a new way to make money. And there is also a live Internet broadcast, so we have more channels to sell things,” Zhang said. About 'Life-changing Seeds' Series: Greenery has been a vital part in China's fight against poverty. Numerous farmers have been lifted out of poverty because of the plants they grow on their farmland, especially the unique ones and those endemic to a certain area. As China's most important political event, the Two Sessions, is underway, CGTN Nature selects five stories of how plants have helped in the country's efforts to improve residents' well-being. Stay tuned! To learn more: Life-changing Seeds: Small fruits guard big families Life-changing Seeds: Endemic fruit becomes economic pillar (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at nature@cgtn.com.)