Over the past decade, the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) has galvanized nearly $1 trillion in investments, established more than 3,000 cooperation projects, created 420,000 local jobs and helped lift almost 40 million people out of poverty. Belt and Road projects have demonstrated how effective cooperation can transform the concept of "building a community with a shared future for mankind" into practical reality, said Almas Chukin, a prominent Kazakh economist. China believes in building "a community with a shared future for mankind." To this end, it has put forward multiple proposals for advancing the global governance system and maintaining the international order, providing the world with a Chinese solution. A community of development In the post-COVID-19 era, while the world struggles with economic recovery, China's economy shows a medium-high growth trend and remains the "anchor of stability." China is actively building a system of high-level opening-up. Becoming a major trading partner of more than 140 countries and regions, China has successfully held the China International Import Expo for five consecutive years to let companies from all over the world seek development opportunities in the Chinese market. China actively provides experience in global economic governance to promote more inclusive global development. The Global Development Initiative (GDI), proposed by Chinese President Xi Jinping, has drawn a blueprint for global development. The Group of Friends of the GDI has members from more than 60 countries so far. The China-Europe Railway Express has laid out 82 transportation routes, connecting 200 cities from 24 countries in Europe. A community of security In February 2023, China issued the Global Security Initiative (GSI) Concept Paper, expounding on the core ideas and principles of the GSI and identifying the priorities, platforms and mechanisms of cooperation. "We stay committed to maintaining security in both traditional and non-traditional domains and work together on regional disputes and global challenges, such as terrorism, climate change, cybersecurity and biosecurity," Xi said at the opening ceremony of the Boao Forum for Asia Annual Conference in 2022. The GSI, which features true multilateralism, has been widely recognized by the international community. Shakeel Ramay, chief executive officer of the Asian Institute of Eco-civilization Research and Development, said if the world wants to build a new security framework that is fairer and more equitable, it should act on the GSI. A community of health Amid the ups and downs of the COVID-19 pandemic, Xi elaborated on the significance of building a community of health for mankind and put forward a series of major initiatives and measures. In recent years, China has actively participated in global health governance, provided international assistance, shared anti-pandemic experience and taken other practical actions to inject great impetus into the global battle against the pandemic. China has provided more than 2.2 billion vaccines to more than 120 countries and international organizations, successively transferred technology and cooperated in producing vaccines in more than 20 countries, forming an annual production capacity of 1 billion doses. The country has also co-organized more than 300 COVID-19 prevention, diagnosis and treatment exchange activities with more than 180 countries and regions around the world and over 10 international organizations, in addition to dispatching anti-pandemic expert teams to 34 countries. As Xi said at the opening ceremony of the Boao Forum for Asia Annual Conference in 2021, "We must put people and their lives above anything else, scale up information sharing and collective efforts and enhance public health and medical cooperation." A community of all life on Earth "Protecting biodiversity helps protect Earth, our common homeland, and contributes to humanity's sustainable development," Xi said when addressing the leaders' summit of the 15th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP15) in 2021. China has achieved great results in ecological civilization, green development, disaster reduction and poverty alleviation and played a leading role in the international community. Taking the initiative to share the successful measures in pollution control, environmental protection and ecological restoration with the world, China carries out foreign affairs activities with the theme of ecology, hosts high-level summit forums and international conferences to introduce China's plans, and invites experts from international organizations to learn more about China's ecological protection achievements.