China and Australia agreed to manage differences properly, resume more dialogue and boost mutually beneficial cooperation on the sidelines of the G20 foreign ministers' meeting in New Delhi on Thursday. Chinese Foreign Minister Qi Gang told his Australian counterpart, Penny Wong, that China and Australia should implement the important consensus reached at the Bali Summit last year, respect each other's core interests and major concerns and cherish the positive momentum of improving bilateral relations. Qin said that the two countries have resumed institutional dialogue and consultation on diplomacy, economy and trade, and should continue to promote dialogue and exchanges at all levels. The two sides should properly manage differences and address each other's legitimate concerns. "We hope the Australian side can provide a fair, just and non-discriminatory business environment for Chinese enterprises to invest and do business in Australia," Qin said. Wong agreed to manage differences between the two countries, saying sound Australia-China relations are in the common interests of both sides. Wong added that Australia will jointly implement the outcomes of the new round of China- Australia diplomatic and strategic dialogue and fully support the resumption of more institutional dialogues between the two countries. She welcomed Chinese investment in Australia, saying the economic, trade and investment cooperation between the two countries is mutually beneficial and Australia will treat Chinese companies on an equal footing. Both sides also touched on the Russia-Ukraine crisis. Wong said that China is a key force in promoting world peace, stability and prosperity and she hopes China can play an important role in resolving the crisis. Qin said that the core of China's position on the Russia-Ukraine crisis is to promote peace talks. From the start, China has been calling for a ceasefire and political settlement through diplomatic negotiations. China will continue to play a constructive role, Qin noted.