Barely hours after rumors emerged that Burnley boss Vincent Kompany could be in line to replace Antonio Conte as Tottenham Hotspur manager, another bombshell was dropped on the English Championship leaders, who have been placed under an immediate transfer embargo just three months before the window reopens. Burnley released a statement late Sunday night, claiming the embargo was imposed after the late submission of their financial accounts to the English Football League (EFL).  "We would like to share with our supporters the disappointing news that the EFL are placing the club under an immediate transfer embargo," it reads. "We believe transparency in these matters is paramount and we want to explain why this has happened. "In our continued efforts to improve and move forward Burnley Football Club we made the decision to change our auditors in November and the transition has taken longer than we anticipated. "We can confirm that we have provided draft accounts and financial information to the EFL's Club Financial Reporting Unit and we continue to have regular dialogue with the unit to ensure we remain as open and as transparent and answer any questions the league may have. "We believe the EFL will have no issue with the detail of our accounts other than their late submission and fully understand and support their position and efforts to sanction any club who fails to comply with any of their regulations." Burnley's transfer embargo is the only blot on an otherwise flawless Championship campaign as Kompany's side are 13 points clear at the top of the table and on course for a much-anticipated return to the Premier League. Kompany's role in Burnley's stunning dominance this season is beyond doubt. The former Manchester City captain, who played for the reigning English champions for more than a decade before taking over at the Clarets, has managed to transform the playing style of Burnley to preach a brand of possession-based, attacking football. They have lost just two games in the Championship all season. Little wonder there is a growing sense that Kompany, who turns 37 next month, could be tempted to seek pastures new and oversee a more established behemoth next season. Kompany, however, played down suggestions that he would leave in the summer.  'The focus is just on Burnley getting better and we will see... I just work as hard as I can to just get better every single time," he said at a press briefing last week.  "My goal is I am looking forward to coming up against better managers – I live for that. My biggest strength is that if I fail, I get back up, I come back stronger – and that process is more important for me now."