Portrait painting can often have a profound impact as the artist strives to make their subject resonate with the viewer. Chinese ink wash painter Shi Guoliang is a master in this field. He is adept at capturing scenes from people's daily lives with a photorealistic painting technique. Shi was born in 1956 in Beijing and developed a passion for painting since he was a child. Although his family then was not well-off, his parents were very supportive of his passion. With a talent for art and the support of encouraging parents, Shi was admitted to Beijing No. 3 Normal College to pursue a career as a professional painter in 1973. At 17, he received a solid grounding in art, from sketching and water colors to oil and ink wash paintings, and he was eager to absorb more. Quick sketches were his forte at the time, because the course required few materials. With just a charcoal pen and some blank paper, he was able to express his artistic visions freely. Shi was especially grateful for his teacher at the time, the renowned female painter Zhou Sicong. It was Zhou who showed Shi the importance of doing quick sketches to hone his skills in ink-wash portrait painting. Shi would cycle directly to the nearest train station after class to sketch passers-by from all walks of life. At weekends, he would also travel to the suburbs, searching for more challenging subjects. This intense practice in his early years helped lay a solid foundation for his unique style. Shi became an art teacher himself after he graduated, which enabled him to continue his artistic creations. In 1978, Shi was admitted to the Central Academy of Fine Arts to study traditional Chinese painting. During this period, he was able to study under painting masters like Ye Qianyu and Jiang Zhaohe, and finally became a protege of veteran artist Huang Zhou. Huang once told Shi that a painter must also be a good director. "You must arrange the characters to tell a story that resonates with the viewers. When there's a resonance between the artist, the viewers and the characters, you get a good painting," said Shi, as he recalled his teacher's words. In the autumn of 1980, Shi's graduation showcase made quite a splash in the art community, winning critical acclaim from maestros in various art circles. One of Shi's creations is "Purchasing Pigs," which depicts the moment of rounding up some swine. "At the bottom was a woman calling out to the pig. Her hand movements were in line with her mouth as she called out to the pig," Shi explained. During the 1980s, Shi sought to base his career overseas. However, he found himself at an artistic standstill and gradually realized that his creative energy lay in China within the vast landscapes and its people. In 2010, Shi returned to his hometown of Beijing. He believed that only by rooting his creations in the land and the people that nurtured him would he be able to create something truly outstanding. The various twists and turns of Shi's life journey have condensed into his ink wash portrait paintings. Each one tells a unique story about the country and people he has a deep affection for. "I see painting as my greatest passion in life and I have committed myself to the characters under my brush. I have whole-heartedly devoted myself to both life and the pursuit of art." For decades, Shi has persisted in fulfilling his mission as an artist, and he said he will continue to do so, in a bid to document the beauty of the world he lives in for future generations.