Chinese Foreign Minister Qin Gang and his Indian counterpart Subrahmanyam Jaishankar agreed on Thursday to promote the improvement of China-India relations. During their meeting on the sidelines of the Group of 20 (G20) Foreign Ministers' Meeting held in New Delhi, India, Qin noted that as two neighboring powers and major emerging economies, China and India have far more common interests than differences. Their development and revitalization reflects the growth of the developing countries, which will change the fate of one-third of the world's population and shape the future of Asia and even the world, he said. He pointed that the two sides should view their relations under the background of the global changes unseen in a century, carry out bilateral cooperation in view of national rejuvenation and go hand in hand on the road to modernization. He urged both sides to implement the important consensus reached by the two leaders, maintain dialogue to properly manage differences, and promote the improvement and steady growth of bilateral relations as soon as possible. The border issue should be put in an appropriate position in bilateral relations and both sides should strive to switch from emergency response to normalized management and control on the border, he stressed, adding China is willing to work with India to speed up the recovery of bilateral exchanges and cooperation in various fields and resume direct flights as soon as possible to facilitate personnel exchanges. He said that China and India boast broad common interests in fields of safeguarding the rights and interests of developing countries, promoting South-South cooperation and addressing global challenges such as climate change. China supports the Indian side in fulfilling its G20 presidency and is ready to strengthen communication and cooperation with India to protect the common interests of developing countries and international fairness and justice, injecting stability and positive energy in the world, said Qin. Nothing India and China are great ancient civilizations and important partners, Jaishankar said both sides have had and will continue to achieve positive results in areas including economic and trade cooperation, people-to-people and cultural exchanges. He said that the Indian side agrees that bilateral relations should be viewed and improved from a historical and strategic perspective, and more cooperation platforms should be built to push India-China relations forward along the right track. He pointed out that at present, the border situation between China and India is gradually stabilizing, and both sides should work together to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas.