Aged 90, Han Yufeng from Taiyuan City, north China's Shanxi Province got his 12th electoral certificate in 2021. In an old but well-preserved album, Han has saved all his 12 certificates, with the oldest dating back to 1953, when China's first Electoral Law of the National People's Congress (NPC) and Local People's Congresses was enacted, providing legal guarantees for elections of deputies to people's congresses. In that year, a general election was held nationwide for the first time after the founding of the People's Republic of China. By means of secret ballot and show of hands, local people's congresses were elected and convened. In September 1954, the first session of the first NPC was held with 1,226 deputies elected. Over the decades, voters like Han may have changed their jobs, workplaces and places of residence, but their enthusiasm to participate in the elections has never dimmed. "The people elect deputies, and the deputies in turn serve for the people's interests. For each vote, I first learn about the candidates before choosing those who can truly represent the people. Otherwise, I could waste my sacred vote," said Han. Five levels of democratic election China's democratic election for people's congresses is based on a five-level electoral system, namely the national, provincial, city, county and township levels. All of the deputies are democratically elected, either directly or indirectly by their respective constituencies, with a term of five years. Chinese citizens aged 18 or above are eligible to vote and stand for election, except those who are deprived of political rights in accordance with the law. Deputies to people's congresses at the township and county levels are directly elected by the public. They elect deputies to city-level people's congresses, and the latter elect deputies at the provincial level. NPC deputies are elected by the people's congresses of provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities. Leading officials of state organs at various levels are appointed or elected by people's congresses at the corresponding levels. "By exercising their right to vote in elections, the people elect those who represent their will to hold and exercise power. This is an important form of democracy in China, and a clear demonstration of the people's status as masters of the country," according to the white paper titled "China: Democracy That Works" released in December 2021. Fully representative of the people At the end of 2020, 2.62 million people were serving as deputies to people's congresses at all levels nationwide. Among them, 2.478 million were at the township and county levels, accounting for 94.5 percent of the total. All regions, ethnic groups and sectors shall have an appropriate number of deputies, as stipulated in the Electoral Law, which also makes clear requirements for the proportion of deputies elected from the grassroots level, especially workers, farmers, professionals and technicians, women and ethnic minorities. "It can be said that in China, deputies to people's congresses come from every region, every industry, every field and every ethnic group," said Guo Zhenhua, deputy secretary general of the 13th NPC Standing Committee. On February 24, the 13th NPC Standing Committee confirmed the validity of the qualifications of the 2,977 deputies to the 14th NPC. Among them, 790 are female, accounting for 26.5 percent of the total, and 497 workers and farmers, accounting for 16.69 percent. A total of 634 deputies are technical personnel, making up 21.3 percent of all the deputies. Moreover, deputies represent all of China's 56 ethnic groups with 442 from ethnic minorities. The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (SAR) and the Macao SAR elected 36 deputies and 12 deputies to the 14th NPC respectively, and 13 deputies will represent Taiwan region in the top legislature. The deputies, who come from the people, are rooted in the people. In recent years, people's congresses at all levels have set up over 220,000 stations for deputies to contact the people, covering all townships and subdistricts, as well as some communities and villages. Deputies regularly receive people at these stations and listen to their opinions. At the NPC session every year, nearly 3,000 deputies will put forward thousands of documents, providing opinions and suggestions, said Guo. In the past five years, the deputies made a total of 43,750 suggestions, all of which have been handled. During the fifth session of the 13th NPC, deputies put forward a record high of 9,203 suggestions concerning all aspects of work. Among them, 776 discussed how to develop education that meets the people's demands, 661 were about promoting the building of a healthy China, and 126 talked about protecting the legitimate rights and interests of women and children. Data editor: Zhao Hong Graphics designer: Mukesh Mohanan Data support: Chu Hongyang