Graham Potter, manager of Chelsea, said on Friday that he feels "the support of everyone" when asked by reporters about the mounting pressure for him to step down recently. Chelsea had a rough start of the 2022-23 season in the Premier League and spent over as much as 329.5 million euros (about $350.9 million) during the winter transfer window to enhance their lineup. They signed a series of stars including Enzo Fernandez of Argentina and Enzo Fernandez of Argentina of Ukraine. However, instead of bouncing back quickly, Chelsea have won only two of their 10 Premier League games since the FIFA World Cup in Qatar ended. They are now 10th in on the standings table and 14 points away from the UEFA Champions League qualification zone. Moreover, the club lost to Borussia Dortmund 1-0 in first-leg game of the Champions League Round of 16 at Westfalenstadion on February 15. Chelsea's co-controlling owners Todd Boehly and Behdad Eghbali attended the club's practice along with Potter on Friday. They will also go to Stamford Bridge to watch the two home games against Leeds United and Dortmund on Saturday and March 7 respectively. "We're in a situation where we are together. I don't feel there is a loss of anything – loss of support, I feel the support of the players, I feel the support of everyone here," Potter said. "I understand the frustration externally but amongst the players is a desire for us all to do better. That's the pleasing thing because the results haven't been good and we're still fighting for each other." "From my perspective, I'm absolutely fine. I love this job. I love this challenge. Although you have moments where it is tough and you have to suffer, I also know how fortunate I am to have challenge of this. It is incredibly stimulating, at the same time as it is also tough and you have to recognize that as a human being. I've certainly got nothing to complain about," he added. Though Chelsea are a better team than Leeds United both on paper and judging by their performances so far this season, "The Blues" cannot take Saturday's game for granted. Leeds United are only one point above the relegation zone and, thus, may be more motivated to battle on the field.