Javier Tebas, president of the Spanish top football league La Liga, told reporters on Thursday that Barcelona will not be able to sign players during the summer transfer window this year, as was the case during the winter transfer window, as well. "We have not let Barcelona sign players this winter, and next summer they will not be able to sign players. With the famous levers, the club has made levers last summer for 5 percent of its turnover. But at other clubs, that could be a problem. We have acted and self-regulated quickly. No one can make levers that represent 5 percent of the turnover," Tebas said. Last summer, Barcelona activated multiple "economic levers," including selling future TV rights, to generate revenues in the short term. These deals in the end accounted about 5 percent of their yearly turnover. La Liga considered that number too high and violations of league regulations. Barcelona paid 153 million euros (about $162.4 million) to introduce Raphinha, Robert Lewandowski and Jules Kounde from Leeds United, Bayern Munich and Sevilla respectively last summer. Moreover, the Spanish giants also signed a series of free agents including Franck Kessie and Andreas Christensen. "Barcelona is very important for the league, but if we look the other way, it would be a serious mistake. Our competition would collapse. Maybe now their president will call me angry, but it's the truth," Tebas said. While Tebas fired at Barca for financial issues, he didn't let Manchester City go as the Premier League powerhouse was charged with more than 100 breaches of the league's financial regulations between 2009 and 2018. "It's about the reputation and dignity of the Premier League. Your global reputation affects your ability to attract sponsorship and sell television rights," Tebas said. "It has taken too long. We know there was an alleged breach of 100 articles, so any decisions will have to be adopted accordingly by the Premier League. One of the worst things about financial controls is if you don't follow or comply with it."