Pear blossoms are favored by ancient Chinese poets. Cen Shen, a poet of the Tang Dynasty (618-907), wrote "A sudden spring breeze swept through overnight, bringing thousands of pear trees into bloom." Another famous poet from the Tang Dynasty, Bai Juyi, also compared the crying Yang Guifei – the beloved consort of Tang Emperor Xuanzong – to a pear blossom with raindrops. Pear tree plantations in China can be dated back to around 3,000 years. According to "Flora of China," there are 14 species of genus Pyrus in China. Their fruits are generally called pears, while their flowers are called pear blossoms. Every March to May, pear trees bloom across China. To separate them from other white flowers with five petals, such as peach and cherry blossoms, one needs to look at the anthers. The pear blossoms typically have red or magenta anthers. Apart from the beautiful blossoms, pears are also indispensable in Chinese daily lives. China has the largest production of pears in the world. Its plantation area and production both account for two thirds of the world's total. There are diverse ways to eat pears, such as sweet stewed pears, dried pears or pear syrup. (All photos via CFP) About 'China in Bloom' Flowering is not just about plants. It's also about how people approach their lives. Today, it has become a popular outdoor activity across China. In some places, watching flowers has been turned into a tourist activity and thus an economic drive. As the Two Sessions, the most important event on China's political calendar, is currently underway, CGTN Nature presents a new series "China in Bloom" to showcase the beauty of the country in spring by introducing some of the most popular flowers in the country as well as the stories of how flowers contribute to people's lives. For more: China in Bloom: Discover plum blossoms in spring China in Bloom: The Yulan Magnolia as an envoy of spring China in Bloom: Discover camellia- the triumphant flower China in Bloom: A symbol of love and well-being, a sign of spring (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at nature@cgtn.com.)