Solidarity and democracy are the two main themes of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC). The top political advisory body is a political consultation organization under the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC) and an important part of China's democratic system. In the just concluded first session of the 14th National Committee of the CPPCC, Wang Huning, chairman of the 14th CPPCC National Committee delivered a speech, saying the CPPCC members will unite around the CPC, fully implement its duties by focusing on the main tasks set by the 20th CPC National Congress and strive to make new contributions to Chinese modernization. Uphold unity and democracy "China is now at a crucial stage for the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation and major changes unseen in a century are accelerating. At the moment, we need to build consensus and strengthen solidarity all the more," Wang said at the closing meeting, adding that the session fully demonstrated the strength and vitality of the whole-process people's democracy in China. The CPPCC unites around the CPC, upholds the leadership of the Party, and provides democratic and scientific proposals to it. It also unites people from all walks of life. Through conducting inspections, investigations and surveys, CPPCC members can hear the voices and wisdom of the people and pool resources and strength for national social and economic development. After thorough research, they can also make suggestions and criticisms, and put forward proposals to the CPC and the state, which are conducive to improving their work. Long Keping, a professor at the School of Computer and Communication Engineering in the University of Science and Technology Beijing, made three suggestions regarding the transformation of scientific and technological achievements, in a group discussion during the session. He immediately received calls from the Ministry of Science and Technology the next day, which attached great importance to his suggestions and made further discussions about the following steps, including financial and policy support. Strive for Chinese modernization "The CPPCC should fulfill its duties by focusing on the central tasks of the Party and the state, and make suggestions for the implementation of the decisions and plans made by the 20th CPC National Congress," Wang stressed at the meeting. The 20th CPC National Congress envisioned the future of building China into a great modern socialist country in all respects and set out strategic tasks and major measures for the next five years. As a crucial political consultation body, the CPPCC bears important responsibilities in assisting the Party to better implement the tasks and make more scientific and democratic decisions. One of the priorities of the 20th CPC National Congress is economic recovery, which emphasizes the importance of employment. Lv Guoquan, member of the CPPCC National Committee and director of the General Office of the All-China Federation of Trade Unions, put forward four specific suggestions to better improve employment at the recent session, including strengthening the implementation of policies such as tax and fee reduction for enterprises, business loans and skills training, improving the construction of the human resources market and developing vocational education and training. Improving China's science and technology innovation capability is also an important task of the 20th CPC National Congress. Li Zhiqiang, a member of the CPPCC National Committee and an aviation scientist with more than 30 years of experience, has submitted 10 proposals since 2018 in this respect. In his proposals, he has covered many critical points including financing difficulties of technology enterprises, tax policies on research and development expenses, legislation on data property rights and so on. "The 20th CPC National Congress charted the course for improving the system of scientific and technological innovation," said Li, adding as a CPPCC member, he has paid close attention to national policies and the development of the industry so that he can put forward high-quality proposals for scientific and technological innovation, and better contribute to the country's development. "The CPPCC will open a new chapter in its development, strive to build a powerful modern socialist country, and push ahead with the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation," Wang concluded at the end of the meeting.