The Chinese Foreign Ministry Saturday unveiled more details about the Saudi Arabia and Iran talks in Beijing, saying the two Middle East countries' dialogue and agreement set a good example of how countries in the region can resolve disputes and differences and can achieve good neighborliness and friendship through dialogue and consultation. China, Iran and Saudi Arabia released a joint statement on Friday saying Iran and Saudi Arabia have agreed to re-establish ties and reopen embassies within two months after a negotiation meeting in Beijing. According to a statement published on the Chinese Foreign Ministry's website, the delegation of Saudi Arabia headed by Dr. Musaad bin Mohammed Al-Aiban, Minister of State, Member of the Council of Ministers, and National Security Advisor, and the delegation of Iran headed by Admiral Ali Shamkhani, Secretary of the Supreme National Security Council of the Islamic Republic of Iran, held talks in Beijing from March 6 to 10. Member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Director of the Office of the Central Commission for Foreign Affairs Wang Yi held talks with the two delegations respectively and chaired the opening and closing ceremonies of the talks, the statement read. Read more: 'A victory for peace': Wang Yi hails Saudi-Iran decision to resume ties Outcomes of the talks With the concerted efforts of all parties concerned, the talks between Saudi Arabia and Iran in Beijing produced major outcomes, the Chinese Foreign Ministry pointed out. "Saudi Arabia and Iran have identified the roadmap and timeline for improving their relations, which provides a solid foundation for their cooperation going forward and turns a new page in their bilateral relations," the statement said. This will help regional countries to get rid of external interference and take the future into their own hands. Saudi Arabia and Iran reaffirmed their adherence to the purposes and principles of the UN Charter and the basic norms in international relations including non-interference in internal affairs of state, it added. Stressing the talks are in line with the trend of the times, the ministry said China applauds this and congratulates both sides. 'China pursues no selfish interests in the Middle East' The Chinese Foreign Ministry also noted China pursues no selfish interest whatsoever in the Middle East. "We respect the stature of Middle East countries as the masters of this region and oppose geopolitical competition in the Middle East," the statement said, adding China has no intention to and will not seek to fill a so-called vacuum or put up exclusive blocs. China always believes that the future of the Middle East should always be in the hands of the countries in the region and supports the people in the Middle East in independently exploring their development paths and supports Middle East countries in resolving differences through dialogue and consultation to jointly promote lasting peace and stability in the region, the statement said. In terms of China's future role of promoting peace and stability in the Middle East, the ministry stressed China will be a promoter of security and stability, partner for development and prosperity and supporter of the Middle East's development through solidarity. "China will continue to contribute its insights and proposals to realizing peace and tranquility in the Middle East and play its role as a responsible major country in this process," it added.