China, Saudi Arabia and Iran on Friday issued a joint statement, announcing the restoration of diplomatic relations between the two Middle Eastern countries. In a global opinion poll conducted by CGTN, 93.47 percent of the respondents said they highly appreciate China's positive role in the rapprochement between the two countries. The two countries' restoration of diplomatic relations under China's mediation is a manifestation of the China-proposed Global Security Initiative. China has long supported Middle Eastern countries in upholding their strategic independence, and advocated that all disputes and differences be resolved through dialogue and consultation to safeguard regional peace and stability. According to the poll, 93.64 percent of the global respondents believe that the restoration of diplomatic relations between Saudi Arabia and Iran will strengthen peace and security in the Middle East, while 91.09 percent think China's concept of peaceful development has received more recognition and support compared with the practice of inciting conflicts in the Middle East by some countries. In addition, 92.6 percent of the respondents believe that any unilateral sanctions or extreme pressure will only ramp up tensions. The diplomatic event, promoted by China and concluded in China, reveals that China has always faithfully performed its duties as host and as a well-intentioned and reliable mediator. As a result, 93.47 percent of the respondents said they think highly of China's positive role in promoting the agreement. Meanwhile, 85.51 percent of the respondents are confident in China's ability to participate in global governance, looking forward to witnessing China play a constructive role in international hotspot issues and show its responsibility as a great power. This poll, published by CGTN on English, Spanish, French, Arabic, and Russian platforms, received responses from more than 30,000 people within 24 hours. (Cover: The national flags of Iran, China and Saudi Arabia. /CFP)