Chinese Foreign Minister Qin Gang on Thursday called for efforts to promote the sound development of globalization and strengthen multilateralism at the G20 Foreign Ministers' meeting in New Delhi. Delivering a speech on strengthening multilateralism and promoting global development at the meeting, Qin urged the world's largest economies to take responsibility to work together for global development and prosperity. Promote multilateralism and globalization Qin said that faced with a volatile international situation and rising global challenges, the G20 must enhance cooperation and contribute its share to global development and prosperity. G20 members need to practice true multilateralism, uphold the international system with the United Nations at its core and the international order based on international law, and observe the basic norms governing international relations based on the purposes and principles of the UN Charter. Countries should also adhere to the principle of cooperation, equal dialogue and consultation, avoid power politics and bloc confrontation, promote the sound development of globalization, oppose unilateralism, protectionism and decoupling, and ensure the stability and smooth operation of global industrial and supply chains, Qin said. He called for efforts to make global development "more inclusive, resilient and beneficial for all," adding that the China-proposed Global Development Initiative (GDI) has offered a new option for stepping up the implementation of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Implement Bali consensus "We need to implement the outcomes of the Bali Summit and make further progress," Qin said. To better deliver the outcomes of the Bali Summit, Qin suggested that countries should enhance macroeconomic policy coordination, safeguard food and energy security. "China has suspended more debt service payments than any other G20 member and participated in the debt treatment under the Common Framework," he said. "We hope that multilateral financial institutions and commercial creditors will be actively involved in the debt treatment of developing countries." Countries need to improve global economic governance, complete the 16th General Quota Review of the International Monetary Fund as scheduled and conduct the shareholding review of the World Bank. China also supports the African Union in joining the G20, Qin said. Qin called for international development cooperation, saying G20 members need to support the Sustainable Development Goals Summit of the United Nations, tackle climate challenges and act on the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework. He added that the Bali Summit reached a consensus on preventing illegal cross-border waste transfer, and countries should implement it earnestly. China has put forward the Global Security Initiative and issued a position paper on the political settlement of the Ukraine crisis. "China will always stand on the side of peace, actively promote peace talks and play a constructive role," Qin said.