As the Mobile World Congress (MWC) 2023 saw a strong return of Asian participants in Barcelona, Chinese communication and technology companies shined at the offline event with their latest achievements and cutting-edge mobile communication technologies. Among some 80,000 participants and 2,000 exhibitors from over 200 countries and regions registered at the event, 5,000 participants and 150 exhibitors are from China, bringing Chinese companies' eye-catching products and innovative services. Chinese brand OPPO showed a selection of flagship devices, as well as a number of industry-leading innovations based on its smart initiatives on entertainment, productivity, health and learning. With its family health monitor, the company debuted the OHealth H1 that combines health data management and remote medical service. Another Chinese smartphone brand, Honor unveiled its newest flagship smartphone, the Honor Magic5 series, which is equipped with a triple camera system, the "Eagle Eye." According to Honor's Chief Executive Officer Zhao Ming, once the "Eagle Eye" system is switched on, the cameras based on AI technology can automatically help users capture the most exciting moments, such as fleeting jumps or high-moving motion scenes, even without pressing the shutter button. China's 5G achievement In the 5G field, Chinese companies are also continuing their efforts to provide solutions to enhance global connectivity. China is undoubtedly leading the way in 5G, said Mats Granryd, director general of the show organizer GSMA. He noted that China has the largest number of 5G base stations in the world and is expected to reach almost 900 million 5G connections by the end of 2025. On the first day of the four-day event, China Telecom, China Unicom, Datang Mobile, Ericsson, Huawei and ZTE jointly released "5G Network Co-Construction and Sharing Guide," a guide book sharing China's key technologies and operational management in 5G network construction with global operators. Green development Along with technology innovation, the Chinese companies also shared their focus on green development during the MWC. On the opening day of this event, OPPO released "The OPPO Climate Action Report: Climate Pledges and Low Carbon Development Strategy" its first climate action report co-authored with global consulting firm Deloitte. The report sets OPPO's goal to achieve carbon neutrality across its global operations by 2050, and outlines its future blueprint for low carbon development. In Europe, Huawei has already cooperated with some operators to deploy the latest green three-layer architecture solution, and has jointly worked with industry partners to incorporate indicators measuring network carbon emissions intensity into the formal international standards of the International Telecommunication Union. "We are helping not only operators but also the entire industry to save energy and reduce emissions. We drive green development through continuous technology innovation and ongoing collaboration with operators and the industry as a whole," said Philip Song, chief marketing officer of Huawei's Carrier Business Group. Lasting from February 27 to March 2, MWC 2023, themed on Velocity, planned five key seminars focusing on 5G acceleration, Reality+, OpenNet, FinTech and Digital Everything. Read More: Global mobile industry showcases latest tech innovations at MWC 2023 (With input from Xinhua)