The residents of Beijing's Longxiang community have one thing in common – they know all about the Olympic Games. Based in the center of the Olympic zone in Beijing, the Olympic village sub-district is cultured by the two Olympic Games that Beijing held in 2008 and 2022. And Longxiang is located just north of the Olympic Forest Park. Many of the residents there volunteered for both of the Olympic Games. "I've experienced the bidding process and the actual Games of both the 2008 Summer Olympics and the 2022 Winter Olympics. So I have a special attachment to the Olympic Games. I volunteered to stand guard during both Olympics and did my part for the city to make history," Wang Shihou from Longxiang told CGTN. "Yes. Beijing, being the first dual-Olympic city, made our community a dual-Olympic community. I was very willing to do my part for both the 2008 and 2022 Games, and I've seen the changes it brought to our lives in such a positive way, so I think all of us in Longxiang have a deep relationship with the Olympic Games," Ji Xiufu told CGTN. Longxiang was a model community for the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics, and its social workers are also doing all they can to help enrich the lives of the people living there. Their goal is to keep the Olympic spirit alive. "From very early in the morning, residents will come here to exercise, play table tennis or dance in the activity rooms in the service center, said Longxiang Residential Committee Director Zhang Yi. "We also hold quite a lot of sporting events in the Olympic Forest park, which is just around the corner from the residential buildings. Our hope is to keep the Olympic spirit with us after the Games ended." Gong Lili has been working in the Longxiang community for 13 years. Starting from her mother's generation, Gong's family has been engaged in social work, and she knows best how much enthusiasm the residents here have for volunteering at the Olympics. "I was responsible for organizing the volunteers during the Winter Olympics for safety patrols outside the stadiums, and I was very excited for the Olympics. My aunt was also a social worker, and she is the reason why I decided to be one too. I think that's how it is in Longxiang; the Olympic spirit just passed down from generation to generation," Gong said. Longxiang community's sporting atmosphere also benefits from the influence of the Olympic Village sub-district, which is deeply committed to holding a series of amateur Olympic events. "Our winter Olympics activity series started from January 1, and we've just held an ice dragon boat race a few days ago, with over 800 people participating in the race. The amateur sporting events we hold are all for the well-being and happiness of the people living here," Olympic Village Sub-district Civic Activity Center Director Chen Yong said. In a community comprised mainly of the elderly, life is made easy by a mere 10-minute walk to the park and a five-minute walk to the kindergarten and the supermarket. For a generation that participated in two Olympics, from the bidding process to the actual Games in the first city that has ever held both the summer and winter Olympics, the residents in the Longxiang community have a close connection, and it is made even closer as the Olympic spirit gets passed on through the numerous activities held by the community. (Cover: CGTN's Zhu Mandan (L) interviewees Ji Xiufu. /CGTN)