Taking flowers, birds, and land animals as his main subjects, Chinese painter Liu Wanming creates art based on traditional Chinese methods and a meticulous observation of life. Both his large-scale paintings and smaller sketches seek to present the harmony between humans and nature. Recently Liu appeared in an episode of "Meet the Masters," which offered a glimpse into the venerable artist's career and presented his views on art to a global audience. Liu Wanming was born in 1968. Growing up in the countryside, he didn't have access to many picture books. So, he created his own by copying illustrations using window paper and passed the booklet among his peers. This ignited Liu's passion for art, which was further influenced by his mother's skill in embroidery, paper cutting, and drawing. Liu's deep affection for his mother was later reflected in his artworks. In portraying the mother-child relationship among animals, Liu pays close attention to the detail, especially the eye contact between his subjects. He thinks that the deep love between a mother and child is difficult to convey through words, and better expressed through paintings. From a young age, Liu's father disapproved of his artistic passion. Yet Liu remained undeterred, and secretly wrote a letter to the Tianjin Academy of Fine Arts, expressing his love for painting and lamenting his lack of resources. The heartfelt reply from the then Deputy Dean Zhang Pusheng came as a surprise to him. Thanks to the encouraging letter, Liu overcame many difficulties and was admitted to the school of his dreams in 1985. Under the guidance of Zhang Pusheng, Liu studied Chinese painting theory, which he believes is the foundation of art. In 1995, while furthering his studies at the Chinese National Academy of Arts, Liu Wanming came into contact with many renowned Chinese painting theorists and began to appreciate the art from the Song and Yuan dynasties. Since graduating, he has been delving into traditional Chinese painting for most of his life. Liu Wanming is adept at portraying the natural world. Integrating theory and practice, his artworks pursue what he calls the "refined and subtle." Through a meticulous observation of everyday life, painter and calligrapher Liu Wanming shows the spirit of the times rooted in life and people. "My painting style pursues the 'refined and subtle.' It has the characteristics of both freehand brushwork and meticulous brushwork," he said. Many of Liu's paintings take inspiration from scenes of everyday life and nature, artfully showcasing a sense of poetic serenity. His signature flower-and-bird paintings are often seen as a homage to the times. Through years of practice and accumulated knowledge, Liu Wanming has continued to explore the thematic creation of contemporary paintings. Liu Wanming is currently serving as the Deputy Director of the National Museum of China, which is widely regarded as a treasure trove of culture. He says working in such an environment has had a positive impact on his artistic creations. By exposing himself into a wider range of cultural and historical masterpieces, Liu's state of mind and his work have shifted. "Understanding and appreciating traditional culture and art is the foundation of creation," he said. While studying painting theory has injected vitality into his creations, his passion for art and life have also fueled his lifelong artistic career. Liu believes that only by combining tradition and innovation can artists truly create works that reflect the spirit of the times.