Editor's note: Christopher Helali is the international secretary of the Party of Communists USA and a China Government Scholar for Sino-U.S. Cultural Communication at Tongji University, China. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. This March, the Party School of the Communist Party of China's (CPC) Central Committee celebrates its 90th anniversary. Over the past 90 years, the CPC has produced revolutionaries and Party cadre who have shown the world their brilliance, discipline, and sacrifice for the Chinese. Founded in 1933 in Ruijin, east China's Jiangxi Province, the Party School of the CPC has continued to adapt, transform and shape future leaders of the party. The school would become the premier training center for the CPC. From the Long March to the reform and opening-up, the cadre of the CPC, trained and molded at the Party School, has distinguished themselves both in war and peace. They have transformed the lives of over a billion people and modernized a nation that had suffered under feudalism for millennia. Guided by Marxism and socialism with Chinese characteristics, the CPC is not only the largest Marxist party but the largest political party in the world. Some of the most ideologically competent officials and cadre are graduates of the Party School. The motto of the Party School, "Seeking truth from facts, avoiding empty talk," formulated by Mao Zedong, shows how committed the CPC is to molding cadre who dedicate themselves not only to the truth but to those who do not stand idle. With a focus on Chinese modernization with the goal of building a "great modern socialist country" through the middle of 21st century, students learn the latest theoretical insights to advance the CPC's vision. The young cadre members also learn about the wider issues that have an impact on their nation and the various projects it is undertaking worldwide. Xi Jinping, general secretary of the CPC's Central Committee, has emphasized the significance of the Party School for developing the next generation of Party officials, who will implement the broad vision of Chinese modernization and national rejuvenation. Additionally, Xi not only supports the school from the outside but continues to visit it, offering his precious time to speak to students. This demonstrates the dedication of all Party members have for the school, regardless of rank and status. The Party School is an institution of higher learning. Marxists remain dedicated to investigating the world around them, challenging the structures that alienate the people, and modeling alternatives for the world to see. The CPC has shown its resilience and continues to thrive by staying innovative and dedicating itself to building a modern socialist state. The Party did not reject the past but learned from its various mistakes, sharpening their ideology and policies to better serve the Chinese. China has opened its doors to the world. Meanwhile, China has opened its universities and centers to well-educated students and scholars to study, learn, and exchange with their Chinese counterparts. The Party School has opened its doors to scholars and researchers from around the world to learn more about the CPC, its guiding principles, and its program for China. It has robust programs for global exchanges, study abroad programs and cooperation with universities and research institutions worldwide. Learning stands at the very core of the Party School, the CPC, and within Marxism itself. Students at the Party School are trained to not only understand Marxism but to apply it to China's conditions so that they may one day help to lead the world' most populous nation. China's emphasis on discipline, respect and social harmony paves the path for a phenomenal education at the Party School. The Party School of the CPC's Central Committee prepares students to tackle the most urgent domestic and international issues in the 21st century and beyond. It's these soon-to-be officials, who will help to mold and shape the future of the CPC. Under the leadership of President Xi, the future appears bright for the students, the school, and the wider community as well. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)