A year after China officially established its first five national parks, authorities laid out a new plan aiming to build the world's largest national park system by the year 2035. In the 49 candidate sites for the construction of national parks in the plan, three of them are sea areas, and two are land-sea areas. These sites were selected based on their ecological importance, unique natural landscapes and rich biodiversity. It is the first time that marine areas are been considered as national park candidates. The three sea areas listed are the South China Sea, which is known for its tropical marine ecosystems, the Nanji Island, which is a marine biosphere in a subtropical zone, and the Changdao Island, an important habitat for migrating birds and marine animals in a temperate zone. The challenges Early February this year, in a local "two sessions" held in Wenzhou City, east China's Zhejiang Province, delegate Bai Honbao proposed that Wenzhou should take the Nanji Island in the city's Pingyang County as the core and connect the surrounding islands and sea, to promote the construction of the marine national park. The delegate proposed there should be an overall plan for building marine national parks, marine economic zones and seaport economic zones. As a coastal province, Zhejiang is one of the driving forces in China's economy with a population of over 65.7 million. Some say it is not an easy work to balance the high population and fast economic growth with nature conservation as over-exploitation of ocean resources may happen, as well as ocean pollution. The establishment of a marine national park in Nanji Island may have a long way to go, while Changdao Island in east China's Shandong Province already announced its intention in 2020, hoping to be one of the country's first marine national parks. However, the conflicts between protection and development stood out. To keep the core protected area preserved and to give a better life for indigenous people, relocating certain residents and providing them compensation, including new houses, jobs and money, are win-win methods used in national parks such as the Hainan Tropical Rainforest National Park. However, those policies do not all fit in Changdao Island. Chen Shang who participated in the national park's research and investigation work in Changdao Island said in an early interview that residents in Changdao are mainly engaged in fishing, their annual average income reaches 400,000-500,000 Renminbi (much higher than residents in other national parks whose is less than 100,000 Renminbi). Moving them out from the marine protected area or stopping them from fishing would greatly affect their benefits, hence the compensation they asked is very high. The population of Shandong is over 100 million, and its gross ocean product accounted for 18 percent of the region's GDP in 2021. The establishment of Changdao National Park will affect thousands of households and dozens of businesses. Sustainable human-nature relations How to create a marine national park in a densely-populated area, and how to balance ecological conservation and economic development have drawn researchers' attention. In an article published in the Journal of Beijing Forestry University by Wang Hui of the Liaoning Normal University and other scholars, they found that national parks established in economically developed coastal areas have combined the nature conservation with public services. Japan was one of their research subjects. As an island country, Japan's population density is high, with 338.2 person per square kilometer in 2020, according to the Statistics Bureau of Japan. Its national parks are designed not only for protection, but also for sustainable use. There are three classifications of zones in Japan's national parks, including special protection zone and marine park zone, where erection of structures is prohibited, and ordinary zone which are taken as buffer zones and have settlements and farms. Encompassing rich coastal plants and marine life, the Setonaikai National Park is one of the first national parks established in Japan. Once in a while, the conflicts between humans and nature also showed up, when Japan's economy was in rapid growth, resulting in unmonitored pollutants going into the ocean and damaging the ecosystem of the park. Since the 1980s, strict rules and regulations have been implemented, and eventually brought clean water back to the national park. Nowadays, visitors can not only enjoy the natural landscape of the Setonaikai National Park, but can join different conservation projects such as wildlife population survey, observing nature and beach clean-up activities. The national park has designated a marine park zone for protecting endemic coral species and seagrass beds. China's aim to protect the marine ecosystem Other than the three sea areas covered from tropical to temperate zones, two other land-sea areas listed as candidate sites are the Yellow River Estuary and the Liaohe River Estuary. According to Tang Xiaoping, director of the Institute of National Parks, the ecological conservation does not only focus on land, but on the ocean as well, thus the new spatial layout plan takes the ecological function and protection of the ocean into account. For now, all of the candidate sites are still working to meet the criteria to be a national park in China, the three main criteria are ecological importance, management feasibility, and whether the park can be considered a "representative" of the nation. While China continues to push for the construction of national parks, both the inland area and marine area will eventually be coordinated to foster a community of life for humans and nature. For more: Shared by Nature: The wild-type marine island national parks (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at nature@cgtn.com.)