Lionel Messi rarely gets upstaged on the pitch. The freshly-minted World Cup winner, who was crowned men's player of the year at FIFA's annual award ceremony last weekend, has become accustomed to basking in the public limelight. But on Saturday night, the Argentina maestro was overshadowed by the new king of Paris Saint-Germain. Kylian Mbappe's name echoed round Parc des Princes when the French wunderkind became PSG's all-time top scorer with his 201st goal against Nantes. The 24-year-old reached the landmark as he received the ball in the area in stoppage time before firing it home to clinch a 4-2 win.  It speaks volumes about his prodigious talent that Mbappe only needed 247 games to set the new standard, while the previous record-holder Edinson Cavani took 298 appearances to net his 200 goals. The historic moment was marked by a dazzling fireworks display behind the goals and a giant image of Mbappe with the number 201 appeared on the big screen. To add icing on the cake, PSG also prepared a special trophy to recognize their talisman's contribution in an on-field presentation. "I play to make history and I have always said I wanted to make history in France, in the capital of my country, in my city, and I am doing that. It's magnificent, but there is still a lot to be done," beamed Mbappe at the ceremony. "For me, as a native Parisian, this is special. If someone had said to me I would score the goal to beat the record while wearing the captain's armband, I would not have believed it." The sentiment was echoed by PSG president Nasser Al-Khelaifi. "It's a historic moment for the club and for Kylian too of course. A player who loves records... and records love him too," he said. "It's an incredible performance which highlights his consistency and his fantastic efficiency. What a magnificent journey since he arrived almost six years ago. Thank you to him and to all of the team for having given so much to the Paris Saint-Germain supporters. We'll see you again for even more records." Since joining PSG from Monaco in 2017 for a world-record transfer fee, Mbappe has bagged four Ligue 1 titles and won the Golden Boot for each of the past four seasons, more than any other player in the French top flight. At international level, Mbappe already has 12 World Cup goals to his name despite his tender age, just four behind record holder Miroslav Klose. Although Argentina and Messi ultimately won the 2022 tournament on penalties, Mbappe wrote himself into the history books as the first player to score a hat-trick in the final since 1966. Mbappe's PSG goals and assists in full Champions League: 34 goals in 51 matches (26 assists) Ligue 1: 137 goals in 164 matches (53 assists) Coupe de France: 27 goals in 21 matches (11 assists) Coupe de la Ligue: 2 goals in 9 matches (6 assists) Trophee des Champions: 1 goal in 2 matches Top 5 PSG goalscorers 1. Kylian Mbappe: 201 goals in 247 matches 2. Edinson Cavani: 200 goals in 301 matches 3. Zlatan Ibrahimovic: 156 goals in 180 matches 4. Neymar: 118 goals in 173 matches 5. Pedro Miguel Pauleta: 109 goals in 211 matches