This was supposed to be the day when Manchester United finally went toe-to-toe with their arch-rivals Liverpool after a multi-year stretch of under-performance. Just a week after ending their six-year trophy drought by winning the League Cup, having lost only once in 22 matches, the Red Devils unquestionably have the wind in their sails. However, for all the sensational renaissance under manager Erik ten Hag, United crashed back down to Earth with a deep scar as Liverpool handed out a brutal reality check on their progress with an implausible 7-0 humiliation at Anfield. Mohamed Salah scored twice to become Liverpool's all-time leading scorer in the Premier League while Cody Gakpo and Darwin Nunez also netted twice each. Roberto Firmino, who is set to leave the club on a free transfer this summer, came off the bench to complete the once-in-a-lifetime rout. Near the end of this one-sided showdown, Liverpool fans were chanting "we want eight" to taunt their fierce foes. They didn't get it, but the seven-goal defeat is already tied for United's heaviest in club history, with the previous one coming almost a century ago when they were thrashed by Wolverhampton Wanderers in 1931.   Such was their utter dominance in this fixture that Liverpool have now outscored United 17-1 in their last eight meetings at Anfield in all competitions. Jurgen Klopp's side also extend their home league unbeaten streak versus United to seven games, the longest in the English topflight since nine in 1970-79.   Ten Hag's decision to start Wout Weghorst as a play-maker, Bruno Fernandes wide on the left and Marcus Rashford as a lone center forward clearly backfired as United were constantly overran in the midfield. To their credit, United didn't let Liverpool breach their defensive line during a first half that featured little exciting goal-mouth action but after conceding two quick-fire goals at start of the second period, they just collapsed.  Key players such as Bruno Fernandes, Luke Shaw and Casemiro, normally so dependable and calm, lost their composure and repeatedly made poor errors. It speaks volumes about United stars' inexplicable lack of concentration and urgency that at one point of time, when Stefan Bajcetic dribbled past Fernandes in a counter attack, the United captain stopped rather than attempting to recover the ball by chasing down the Liverpool youngster. No wonder Ten Hag accused his players of unprofessionalism during a highly charged post-game press conference.  "It is quite obvious, it was unprofessional," he observed. "It really surprised me after half-time, we gave the game away so quickly." "The first two goals were defensive transition moments, the first was a turnover and the second was a counter, bad decisions and decisions on the ball. How we conceded the goals is really annoying. The third was a counter with unprofessional decisions – not following in, and then running in, moving forwards, giving space away in midfield, not tracking back. "So then it is 3-0 and the game is lost, but as a team you have to stick together. That is what we didn't do. It is a surprise for me. I didn't see this from my team. I don't think it is us. I don't think it is Manchester United. It was really bad, really poor. "After Brentford, after Manchester City. This is definitely a strong setback and is unacceptable. I'm really disappointed and angry about it." In sharp contrast, Ten Hag's counterpart Klopp was in celebratory mood and admitted it was one of his team's greatest displays of the season.  "The way we started the game was really special. We were aggressive, played good football, were super active and the goal before half-time was sensational," he beamed. "I don't think the second half could have started any better, super goals and from then on the boys were flying. "It was perfect. Everybody has to feel us, everybody has to know we are still around. That's what we have to be from now on." There's no doubt that this record-breaking triumph has made a mockery of Liverpool and Klopp's recent struggles, their embarrassing 5-2 defeat at the hands of Real Madrid in the Champions League seemed just a blip. The timely revival of their front three of Salah, Nunez and Gakpo will stand them in good stead in the future. As for United, they have to try their utmost to lick their wounds and bounce back as their crucial Europa League clash with Real Betis is just four days away. In the long term, however, this sobering defeat might work in their favor.  Thoughts that United could yet win the Premier League or even a quadruple this season could be discarded. They will be compelled to keep their feet on the ground from now on. Though the fallen English giants have made great strides under Ten Hag, there is still a long way to go.