Editor's note: The Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) is China's top advisory body. Its members represent 34 sectors of society, demonstrating the country's whole-process people's democracy. CGTN sat down with Liu Yonghao, a veteran entrepreneur in China's agriculture sector and CPPCC member to hear his proposals. As a member of China's top political advisory body, agriculture tycoon Liu Yonghao is advocating for more technology to be adopted into the country's livestock breeding industry. Liu is a member of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC). In 1992, he co-founded the Hope Group with his brothers, the first private conglomerate set up in China with government approval. Later, he and his brothers restructured their company in 1995 and Liu started the New Hope Group, which later became the biggest fodder producer in southwest China. Liu was ranked 49th on the Forbes China rich list in 2022. He has been taking part in the Two Sessions consecutively either as a deputy to the National People's Congress or as a member of the CPPCC over the past 30 years. During this year's legislative meeting, Liu submitted five proposals, including suggestions to further develop advanced technologies for livestock breeding, use more clean energy in animal farms, and train more talent for the sector. "Increased use of science and technology will not only strengthen agriculture but also improve yields and our management capabilities. This is what I would define as the road to green agriculture," Liu told CGTN in an interview. He said that pig and chicken farms should use more photovoltaic power while adding that wind and solar power should also be used in agriculture operations. China's 2023 "No. 1 central document" proposes to "promote the introduction of a food security law," highlighting the country's increased focus on food security. Liu pointed out that agriculture development is largely reliant on national policies and government support. In recent years, the Chinese government has introduced a series of policies to help alleviate the difficulties facing enterprises in order to boost the confidence of private enterprises and promote high-quality development of the private sector of the economy. Liu said that in addition to policy and legal support and regulations, the key to building confidence is for the general public to recognize the importance of private enterprises. He said he found the government work report this year to be practical and encouraging. In the report, China proposes to encourage and attract more private capital to take part in the development of major projects to stimulate the vitality of private investment. "The policies have made private company owners more confident and oriented, and motivate us to seek development and business expansion," said Liu. He also called on the government to give more support to young people who return to their hometowns to start businesses. "Talent is the foundation of rural vitalization," said Liu. "Companies should train more new farmers, so that young people can learn scientific farming, e-commerce and family tourism," he added.