Manchester City moved within two points of Premier League leaders Arsenal as Erling Haaland's penalty clinched a gritty 1-0 win against Crystal Palace on Saturday. Pep Guardiola's side struggled to break down Palace until Haaland netted from the spot with 12 minutes left at rain-lashed Selhurst Park. Haaland's 34th goal in all competitions since joining from Borussia Dortmund last year was enough to seal City's fifth win in their last six league games. "Of course, Arsenal is on an incredible run. Still we are there," Guardiola said. "Here in the typical winter game, a difficult one, we were there all the time and then we won it." Liverpool came crashing down to earth as Bournemouth stunned Juergen Klopp's side with a 1-0 victory to move off the bottom and out of the Premier League's relegation zone on Saturday. Victory would have lifted Liverpool temporarily into fourth place but instead it was Philip Billing's goal that settled the contest in favor of Bournemouth as the south coast side avenged a 9-0 hammering at Anfield earlier this season. Liverpool's record 7-0 hammering of Manchester United last weekend was expected to be followed up with another three points against a struggling Bournemouth side. Three goals would have seen Liverpool equal the Premier League record of 12 goals against a single club in one season. But Bournemouth had other ideas and resisted some early pressure before Billing steered home in the 28th minute. Mohamed Salah blazed a second-half penalty wide for Liverpool and Bournemouth held on for a precious win. "The game was pretty much the opposite of what we wanted to show and to do today," a frustrated Klopp said. "I think we played for pretty much 95 minutes the game Bournemouth wanted to play and a few minutes maybe, a few moments, we did the stuff we wanted to do." Kylian Mbappe broke away to score a last-minute winner as Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) beat Brest 2-1 on Saturday, a result that will go a small way towards healing the wound of their midweek Champions League exit at the hands of Bayern Munich. PSG have been left with just the Ligue 1 title to play for in the remaining months of the season after the Qatar-owned club were knocked out of Europe's elite club competition in the last 16 with a 3-0 aggregate defeat. They took the lead on their trip to Brittany in the 37th minute when Carlos Soler followed in to score after Mbappe's shot had been parried by Brest goalkeeper Marco Bizot. Yet the home side, battling to avoid relegation, drew level before half-time through Franck Honorat and it looked like they would hold on for a precious point in their fight to avoid relegation. But then Mbappe, who had just been booked for kicking Brest midfielder Haris Belkebla in the back of the calf, was sent through on goal by Lionel Messi and rounded Bizot to score. Despite an unconvincing performance, the result allows PSG to extend their lead at the top of Ligue 1 to 11 points over nearest challengers Marseille, who face Strasbourg on Sunday. "People can say it is a little victory, but it is a victory. Not everything was perfect but we had lots of chances and we shouldn't let the fact we needed a last-minute winner hide that," PSG coach Christophe Galtier told broadcaster Canal Plus. "To come here and win three days after our disappointment against Bayern was very important. We are in a fight for the title. The context is obviously not favorable but winning was the main thing." (With input from agencies)