As many as 91.07 percent of respondents in a global China Global Television Network (CGTN) survey believe China's economic growth target of around five percent for 2023 is rational and pragmatic, which is in line with the rule of China's economic development and also shows that China pays more attention to high-quality development. The poll, published by CGTN in English, Spanish, French, Arabic and Russian platforms, received votes from 25,700 respondents. The five percent growth target, set at the ongoing Two Sessions – the country's most important political calendar event – has attracted significant attention worldwide. According to the "Report on the Work of the Government," over the past five years, China's GDP grew at an annual rate of 5.2 percent, significantly higher than the global growth rate of about 2.3 percent during the same period. And over the past decade, China's economy grew at an average annual rate of 6.2 percent. As a result, 87.14 percent of respondents speak highly of China's high-quality economic development and are full of confidence in China's economic prospects. In recent years, China has paid more and more attention to protecting the ecological environment and improving people's living standards. The ecological environment was significantly improved, with energy consumption per unit of GDP dropping by 8.1 percent and carbon dioxide emissions per unit of GDP falling by 14.1 percent, according to a government work report submitted to the national legislature for deliberation on Sunday. Praising China's achievements, 81.99 percent of survey respondents believe that the world's largest developing country has made important contributions to the world in energy conservation and emission reduction. Compared with the high inflation and price surge witnessed by major developed economies in the world, China's consumer price inflation has remained stable at around 2 percent in the past decade, said the 2023 government work report, adding that the low inflation maintains the order of the market economy and better guarantees people's basic livelihood. China's efforts in stabilizing prices won praise from 81.23 percent of respondents. The survey respondents also laud China's achievements in infrastructural development and scientific and technological innovation. In the past five years, the operating mileage of high-speed railways was up from 25,000 kilometers to 42,000 kilometers, and airport capacity was up to 400 million passengers. A total of 89.24 percent of the respondents consider China's performance excellent and outstanding. Noting that China has made remarkable achievements in science and technology, including 5G technology, artificial intelligence, manned spaceflight and satellite navigation, 91.96 percent of respondents believe that China's giant leap in science and technology will better benefit the world, adding that this is in sharp contrast to the rumor of "China's technological threat" frequently hyped by some Western politicians. The 2023 government work report showed that China will improve services for foreign-funded companies, facilitate the launch of landmark foreign-funded projects and implement national treatment for foreign-funded enterprises. In the poll, 86.6 percent of respondents believe China will further open up this year and thus benefit the world.