Here are a few stories from around Asia you may have missed this week. Air pollution has risen to dangerous levels in the Thailand. People in the capital have been advised by the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration to wear face masks and avoid outdoor activities after fine dust levels climbed above safe levels in several areas on March 7. The Bangkok Post reported that "48 provinces were found to have ultra-fine dust particles (PM2.5) levels above the safe threshold" on that day. On March 7, Japan's next-generation H3 rocket failed after liftoff, with the space agency issuing a destruct command after concluding that the mission could not succeed. The failure is yet another blow for the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency, after its rocket failed to even lift off on its first try last month. There was no immediate explanation for the failure. The H3 is an observation satellite launch vehicle that was mooted as a possible competitor to Tesla founder Elon Musk's SpaceX's Falcon 9. Retail sales of vehicles in India jumped by 16 percent to around 1.8 million units in February, helped in part by strong demand during the wedding season, an industry body of automobile dealers said on March 6, adding that festivals could push the sales higher in March. However, rising interest rates amid high inflation are seen playing spoilsport, with overall sales in February still below pre-COVID levels. Brightly painted mini-buses, known as jeepneys, that form the backbone of the Philippines' public transport, have gone on strike crippling the commutes of thousands of people, as drivers and operators protest the phase-out of the traditional non-air-conditioned mini buses in favor of more modern vehicles. The government's modernization programme seeks to replace jeepneys aged 15 years or older with imported vehicles powered by Euro-4 diesel engines or electric motors with less carbon emissions. The Manila Times reported: "President Marcos on Wednesday assured transport groups that the government will carefully study the … modernization program to ensure that no drivers will lose their job.” More than 55,000 people have been evacuated in Malaysia due to floods. Johor state is bearing the brunt of the floods with continuous rain for more than a week. Water levels of 14 rivers in seven districts breached the dangerous mark while 44 roads in eight districts including Segamat, Kota Tinggi, Kluang and Mersing were closed due to the floods. (Cover: View of a dense blanket of smog amid deteriorating air quality levels during the beginning of summer, Chiang Mai, Thailand, March 2, 2023. /CFP)