If you have tried apricot, you may be surprised by its sweet-sour taste. The apricot has a cultivation history in China of 2,000 to 3,000 years. It is a member of the rose family, with relatives including the plum, peach cherry and almond. Not only do the apricot fruits have great value in China, but their flowers also stimulate economic development in many provinces across the country. Yongxing Village is known as "the first village of apricot flowers" in Ganzhou District, Zhangye City, northwest China's Gansu Province. The local government encourages villagers to plant apricot trees by selling agricultural side-products, such as dried apricots and apricot-peel tea. In recent years, the area of apricot trees has expanded to more than 200 hectares in the village, driving the tourism industry to develop. The Apricot Flower Festival, which has been held annually since 2019, brought more than 50,000 visitors to the village to appreciate the beauty of the flowers. Shi Haiyan, a villager who rented a stall to sell local snacks, earned more than 3,000 yuan (about $430) during 2021's Apricot Flower Festival. Yongxing Village is not the only village to benefit from apricot blossoms. With the support of the local government, the 14th Apricot Flower Eco-Tourism Festival was launched in Xinghua Village, Chengdu City, southwest China's Sichuan Province on March 1. The festival is expected to run for nearly four months until late June. Various indoor events and outdoor activities, such as symphony orchestra performances, special product exhibitions and field trips, are underway in the village, leading visitors into the beautiful countryside and strengthening rural revitalization. About 'China in Bloom': Flowering is not just about plants. It's also about how people approach their lives. Today, it has become a popular outdoor activity across China. In some places, flower-gazing has become a tourist activity and, thus, an economic driver. As the Two Sessions, the most important event on China's political calendar, is currently underway, CGTN Nature presents a new series, "China in Bloom," to showcase the beauty of the country in spring by introducing some of the most popular flowers in the country as well as the stories of how flowers contribute to people's lives. For more: China in Bloom: Discover plum blossoms in spring China in Bloom: The Yulan Magnolia as an envoy of spring China in Bloom: Discover camellia- the triumphant flower China in Bloom: A symbol of love and well-being, a sign of spring 'China in Bloom': Enjoy snow-white pear blossoms in spring 'China in Bloom': Cherry blossoms 'China in Bloom': What are haitang flowers? (Cover image designed by CGTN's Liu Shaozhen) (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at nature@cgtn.com.)