Editor's note: Noting that 2023 is the first year for fully implementing the guiding principles from the 20th National Congress of the Communist Party of China, the approaching "Two Sessions" will grab the world's attention. To better understand China's development blueprint, CGTN has curated the "Towards China's Modernization" series, and this is the second piece. Henry Ho is a member of the Beijing Municipal Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, founder and chairman of One Country Two Systems Youth Forum. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. The year 2023 marks the 26th anniversary of Hong Kong's return to the motherland, and also the third year since the implementation of the National Security Law (NSL) for Hong Kong. Looking back at the ups and downs that Hong Kong has experienced over the years, it is hard to imagine the city would achieve prosperity and stability as it is now, without the support of the "One Country, Two Systems" principle and the NSL. As China's international metropolis, Hong Kong has always been at the forefront of the geopolitical conflicts. Violent riots, marked by clashes and fire, used to be a common sight on streets during the social unrest in 2019. At that time, activists openly urged for separatism and even shamefully pleaded for interference by external forces in China's internal affairs. All these matters have revealed Hong Kong's weakness as a national security loophole and posed a real threat to national sovereignty and unity. In light of the unprecedented challenges, the central government has spared no efforts at the national level in resolving the imminent problems faced by Hong Kong, demonstrating their adherence to the principle of "One Country, Two Systems" and care for the people of Hong Kong. Since its implementation of NSL, the law has successfully halted chaos and restored order in Hong Kong, laying a safer social foundation for realizing the overhaul of the city's electoral system. Under the revamped electoral system, the principle of "patriots administering Hong Kong" was strengthened, with the interests of various sectors and their voice broadly represented. The appointment of Zheng Yanxiong as the director of Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region further underlined the central government's determination to safeguard national sovereignty and security. Before taking reins at the Liaison Office, Zheng was director of the Office for Safeguarding National Security of the Central People's Government in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, which is the new and fourth institutional setup of the central government in Hong Kong. On his first day of work, Zheng vowed to help Hong Kong further unleash the driving force of prosperity and be a person who understands, loves and serves the city. His remarks vividly reflect his down-to-earth attitude. In addition, the 14th Five-Year Plan has supported Hong Kong's development in eight key areas, where abundant opportunities will arise for the city to seize. The national blueprint has outlined the city's strengths in becoming an international financial center, international innovation and technology center, and a global hub for cultural exchange, legal and dispute resolution services in the Asia-Pacific region. Under the implementation of the NSL, Hong Kong is able to provide global investors with a safer, stabler and more predictable business environment and brighter prospects for cooperation. On the other hand, the development of the Greater Bay Area (GBA) will also provide Hong Kong with enormous market and resources. Enjoying the dual advantages of "One Country, Two Systems," Hong Kong can leverage its unique status as the international financial hub and contribute to the economic growth of the region, with a view to enhancing the role and functions of the GBA in the nation's two-way opening up. Hong Kong can facilitate the development of industries in which the city's strengths lie in the GBA, capitalizing on Hong Kong's strengths to serve the nation's needs. In January, the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area Task Force was set up by the Department of Justice to deepen legal co-operation between Hong Kong and the mainland. It is no doubt a proactive approach for the construction of a more seamless and interconnected GBA. To accelerate Hong Kong's integration with the mainland, the idea of the "commuting mode of integration" is also worth advocating. It refers to the lifestyle of "living in Shenzhen and working in Hong Kong," or vice versa. For those who live in Shenzhen and work in Hong Kong, they can enjoy low living costs on the Chinese mainland, while benefiting from a higher income and lower tax rates in Hong Kong. As for some Hong Kong residents, especially the young, who don't want to suddenly cut off their connections in Hong Kong, the option of "living in Hong Kong and working in Shenzhen" is a more acceptable lifestyle. In this way, more people may be encouraged to develop their career in and even move to the Chinese mainland cities of the GBA. Looking ahead, China is on a journey towards the second centenary goal of becoming a modern socialist country in all respects. With the upcoming Two Sessions in early March – the first after the easing of COVID-19 restrictions – Hong Kong is secured with greater vitality and long-term prosperity under the "One Country, Two Systems" principle, and its integration into the overall national development is set to be furthered. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries on CGTN Opinion Section.)