Editor's note: Alfred de Zayas is the former senior lawyer in the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and former UN Independent Expert on International Order. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. The 52nd session of the UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC) began on February 27, at the Palais des Nations in Geneva with the usual high-level segment devoted to statements from dignitaries, mostly platitudes, lip-service to human rights, sterile "naming and shaming," but also constructive and pragmatic proposals such as those formulated by Chinese Foreign Minister Qin Gang, which were well received in the NGO communities. Foreign Minister Qin addressed the council by video link and introduced China's vision on human rights, elucidating China's global governance proposals, and elaborating how international solidarity could enhance human dignity in the world and advance the enjoyment of all human rights, including the right to development. Recalling the Charter priorities of the United Nations and of the Council, Qin said, "We advocate the common values of humanity, namely, peace, development, fairness, justice, democracy and freedom, and practice true multilateralism." He focused on diversity, observing that countries vary from one another in their history, cultural heritage, economic conditions and the needs of people. There is a no one-size-fits-all model, according to UNESCO's Constitution. Qin's statement was in tune with the General Assembly Resolution 60/1 of October 24, 2005, which stipulates: "Democracy is a universal value based on the freely expressed will of people to determine their own political, economic, social and cultural systems and their full participation in all aspects of their lives… While democracies share common features, there is no single model of democracy… it does not belong to any country or region." Many conflicts in today's world reflect the inability of some countries to accept "the necessity of due respect for sovereignty and the right of self-determination." Hence, it's not only legitimate but necessary for every country, including China, to promote its path of human rights development, without imposing its model on others. "No country has the authority to be the ultimate human rights arbiter," as claimed by some countries who think they possess a monopoly on the truth. Moreover, "Human rights cannot be used as a pretext to interfere in the internal affairs of other countries to curb their development," a problem we have witnessed by certain states to promote undemocratic regime change through color revolutions. Qin rejected the proliferation of illegal unilateral coercive measures, already condemned in the General Assembly Resolution 77/214 of 15 December 2022, and Human Rights Council Resolution 49/6 of 31 March 2022. It's disturbing that some countries had committed to human rights voted against these resolutions, while knowing that sanctions kill. Meanwhile, Qin rejected the growing politicization and weaponization of the Human Rights Council: "Some forces with hidden agenda keep hyping up issues related to China's Xinjiang and Tibet autonomous regions, in an attempt to smear China and suppress its development… We welcome all fair-minded people from across the world to China to visit more places and see more things, to learn what is truly happening on the ground." Qin recalled that human rights are indivisible and that civil, cultural, economic, political and social rights should be accorded equal attention and advanced in a holistic manner. Just as all human beings are born equal, all countries are equal members of the international community. Qin called on all states to commit to international fairness and justice, since progress in the enjoyment of all human rights requires solidarity, not division. The purposes and principles of the UN Charter should be observed by all, and cooperation carried out on the basis of equality and mutual respect. Qin recalled that humanity is facing severe challenges owing to the impact of pandemics, global economic recession, food and energy crises, breaking of industrial chains, and climate change. Concerning the decision of China's neighbor Japan to dump Fukushima nuclear-contaminated water into the ocean, Qin urged Tokyo to deal with the issue in an open, transparent, scientific and secure manner. In my opinion, Qin could have addressed another ecological issue, the impact on the Baltic marine environment of the terrorist attack on the Nord Stream pipelines, due to the importance of interstate submarine pipelines and the necessity to ensure their safety. This issue was discussed at the UN Security Council on February 21 and Professor Jeffrey Sachs  of Columbia University endorsed the conclusions of investigative journalist Seymour Hersh. The 1997 International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings applies, and the matter should be examined by the UN Office on Drugs and Crime in Vienna. China, together with other countries such as India, Indonesia, South Africa, Mexico and Brazil should call on the General Assembly for an impartial, open and international investigation on the terrorist bombing. The Human Rights Council and its Special Rapporteur on terrorism should demand transparency and accountability. It's hoped that the Chinese delegation in Geneva will take advantage of the 52nd session of the Council to address these issues of international concern and elaborate on China's position paper and twelve-point proposals for peace in Ukraine. In order to advance the cause of peace and human rights, all parties must endeavor, in good faith, to build a consensus and strengthen cooperation. Alas, the UNHRC has become an arena of confrontation rather than cooperation, and its resolutions convey the impression of being in the service of the Western geopolitical agenda rather than advancing the interests of the "global majority." (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)