Editor's note: Li Ziying is the deputy dean of the Faculty of Hispanic and Portuguese Studies at Beijing Foreign Studies University. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. On March 9, 2023, China and Spain celebrate the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations. Over the past 50 years, the two countries have respected each other as equals, deepened mutual political trust, maintained good cooperation in various fields, such as trade and investment, and consolidated the foundation of long-standing friendship, while bilateral relations have made considerable development in all aspects. The two countries have realized many diplomatic achievements during the past years. In 2005, they upgraded their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership. After a decade, Spain has become a founding member of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB). Mariano Rajoy, then Prime Minister of Spain, visited China in 2017 and attended the Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation. Chinese President Xi Jinping also paid a state visit to Spain in 2018. The two countries issued a joint statement on strengthening comprehensive strategic partnership in the new era. China is the top commercial partner of Spain outside the EU, and Spain is China's fifth trading partner within the EU. According to China's Foreign Ministry, the China-Spain trade value reached $51.5 billion in 2022, surpassing $50 billion for the first time in history. In recent years, as China accelerates a new development pattern, expanding its opening-up to the outside world, and its domestic market demand is stronger, the Spanish goods are entering the Chinese market in a growing volume and welcomed by Chinese consumers. China has also invited Spain to make full use of the China International Import Expo, Canton Fair and other significant exhibition platforms, to promote the entry of high-end machinery and equipment, pharmaceuticals and other products into the Chinese market, optimizing the export trade structure with China, and enhancing the leveling up of bilateral trade to achieve balanced development. With the China-Europe freight train, Spanish ham, wine and olive oil are transported to China, while Chinese goods such as toys and electronic equipment are also transported to Spain. During the pandemic, the China-Europe freight train had become a "train for health," delivering pandemic prevention supplies between the two sides. The China-Europe freight train has also opened a new channel for economic exchanges. In terms of cultural exchanges, there are currently nine Confucius Institutes and 18 independent Confucius classrooms in Spain. In 2023, the two countries jointly established the "China-Spain Year of Culture and Tourism." The cooperation at the local level has achieved promising results alongside the forming of several sister city relationships, including Qingdao and Bilbao, Shanghai and Barcelona, Guangzhou and Barcelona, etc. The broader prospects of the future development of bilateral relations can be expected. First, complementary advantages should be used to broaden the scope of cooperation and spur industrial development. We should renovate cooperation models based on technological advantages to create a more favorable environment for bilateral cooperation. China can increase the import of Spanish agricultural products and explore the green economy, and increase investment cooperation in the fields of life sciences, chemical industry, aerospace and aviation, and electric vehicles. Besides, the current cooperation between China and Spain in terms of renewable energy focuses on the import of wind power from Spain to China and the export of photovoltaic industry from China to Spain. The two sides can expand pragmatic cooperation in renewable energy, digital economy, smart city, 5G communication and other fields. Moreover, based on the advantage of Spain's unique geographical location which makes it a crucial hub for trade flows among Europe, Africa and the Americas, key cooperation projects within the framework of the Belt and Road Initiative can be enhanced. Cooperation could be expanded to the emerging economies of the entire Spanish-speaking world. Meanwhile, tightening ties with China allows Spain to play a greater role in the Pacific region, which is in line with Spain's national interests. In 2023, Spain will hold the rotating presidency of the European Union, and deepened China-Spain ties promote the EU's positive interactions with China. Both are great countries with a long history and rich culture. The cultural exchanges between China and Spain have been founded on the respect for the diversity of civilizations and mutual learning. Complementary strengths and mutual cultural appreciation are the foundation for stable and far-reaching relations between the two countries. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)