Editor's note: Imran Khalid is a freelance columnist on international relations based in Karachi, Pakistan. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. China-bashing has become common for elections campaigns in many Western nations. The recently published article in the New York Post by the former South Carolina governor and U.S. ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley, who is vying for the Republican Party presidential nomination, demonstrated how the strategy works. She smeared China as an enemy of the United States. She wrote on February 24 that if elected, she would eliminate all foreign aid to countries that rival the U.S., including China, Pakistan among a few others. She said, "American taxpayers still give money to Communist China for ridiculous environmental programs, despite the obvious threat China poses to Americans." She added, "We are giving huge amounts of cash to countries that vote against us most of the time. That doesn't make sense. I'll stop it. America can't buy our friends. We'll certainly never buy off our enemies." Speaking at her first rally in Charleston, South Carolina, she attacked China with offensive language. She claimed that if she's in the White House, "Communist China will end up on the ash heap of history… like the Soviet Union before it." Apparently, such statements are often used by many Western leaders in recent history. Haley's tirade reflects a chronic problem with American politics. The U.S. foreign policy agenda relies on real or imaginary enemies to appeal to voters and distract their attention from existing domestic problems and its simmering cultural demise. During the Cold War era, the threat from the Soviet Union had rallied American allies together against a common enemy, as well as to keep the American public in perpetual fear of war. After the Soviet Union's downfall, Americans created its new enemy, Islamic Jihad or fundamentalism. And now, sensing that Islamic Jihad has failed to nurture the required "threat culture" in the United States, Washington policy makers are creating a new imaginary villain – China. Haley is casting her eyes on the other side of the globe, while turning blind to the U.S. domestic decline. She has been influenced by former U.S. President Donald Trump, who used similar tactics. We witnessed similar China-bashing by former United Kingdom Prime Minister Liz Truss and the current UK PM Rishi Sunak. Sunak was insolent when talking about China. Haley is playing to the same tune. Her words lured in  a strong response from China, and more airtime for Haley in the electronic and social media. Such a pattern in American politics is very harmful. Particularly since American politics is shifting away from octogenarian politicians to a younger cohort of politicians. Accordingly, the anti-China will have a damaging impact in the long-term outlook. Haley will unlikely win her bid for the White House, but she is adding more bitterness in American minds. Branding China as an evil adversary will harm American interests in the global arena as well. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)