Chinese President Xi Jinping delivered a speech at the closing meeting of the first session of the 14th National People's Congress (NPC), the country's top legislature, at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on Monday morning. Here are some highlights of his address. On putting people first It is a must to put the people first on the new journey of building a great modern socialist country and advancing the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation, said Xi. Addressing the closing meeting, Xi said people are the decisive force in building China into a great modern socialist country in all respects. Read more: Xi emphasizes putting people first on new journey On high-quality development Stressing that China will unswervingly advance high-quality development, Xi said the country should fully and faithfully apply the new development philosophy on all fronts and accelerate efforts to create a new pattern of development. He called for fully implementing the strategy for invigorating China through science and education, the workforce development strategy and innovation-driven development strategy. Read more: Xi Jinping stresses unswervingly advancing high-quality development On coordinating development, security "Security is the bedrock of development, while stability is a prerequisite for prosperity," said Xi. Xi underscored the need to pursue a holistic approach to national security, improve the national security system, strengthen China's capacity for safeguarding national security, enhance public safety governance, improve the social governance system, and safeguard China's new development pattern with a new security architecture. Read more: Xi calls for better coordination of development, security On "One Country, Two Systems" Xi stressed solid efforts in advancing the practice of "One Country, Two Systems" and the cause of national reunification. He stressed the need to fully, faithfully and resolutely implement the policy of "One Country, Two Systems," under which the people of Hong Kong administer Hong Kong and the people of Macao administer Macao, both with a high degree of autonomy. Read more: Xi stresses advancing 'One Country, Two Systems,' national reunification On building human community with shared future China will make efforts to promote the building of a community with a shared future for humanity, said Xi. China's development benefits the world and China cannot develop in isolation from the rest of the world, he said. Stressing that China will make concrete efforts to advance high-standard opening up, Xi said the country will not only leverage global markets and resources for its own development, but also promote the development of the whole world. Read more: Xi stresses building human community with shared future On upholding leadership of CPC Xi stressed upholding the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC) and the centralized, unified leadership of the CPC Central Committee. It is important to stay alert and determined to tackle the special challenges that a large party like the CPC faces, said Xi. He underlined the importance of always having the courage to carry out self-reform, conducting full and rigorous Party self-governance unceasingly, and fighting corruption resolutely. Read more: Xi Jinping stresses upholding leadership of CPC (Cover: The view of the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, China, March 13, 2023. /Xinhua) (With input from Xinhua)