Xunyang County of Ankang City in northwest China's Shaanxi Province grows one of the oldest fruits on Earth. The turnjujube, which was called the "longevity fruit" by the first emperor of China, is very common in the county. In the past, farmers in Xunyang used it to make wine, as is good for the liver and other organs with multiple functions. However, as the quality of life improved, this ancient species was gradually overlooked. Wang Maojun was born in Xunyang. He used to be a professional manager in southern China after he graduated from college, but after he heard that large amounts of local turnjujubes were purchased by Korean companies in 2011, he saw a business opportunity. Wang resigned and returned home in 2014. He used 73 hectares of vacant hillside land to plant turnjujube trees. He also modified and improved ancient brewing techniques to make turnjujube wine, and got the first production license for turnjujube wine in China. After that, more and more in the village noticed the profit and joined his team. With improvements in planting techniques, more opportunities have emerged. Wang's turnjujube business has employed more than 1,000 locals. The annual income for the poor households in the region has increased by 1.7 million yuan. The turnjujube has become the main project for returning farmland to forest in Xunyang, and lifting 13,320 households out of poverty. About 'Life-changing Seeds' Series: Greenery has been a vital part in China's fight against poverty. Numerous farmers have been lifted out of poverty because of the plants they grow on their farmland, especially the unique ones and those endemic to a certain area. As China's most important political event, the Two Sessions, is underway, CGTN Nature selects five stories of how plants have helped in the country's efforts to improve residents' well-being. Stay tuned! To learn more: Life-changing Seeds: Small fruits guard big families Life-changing Seeds: Endemic fruit becomes economic pillar Life-changing Seeds: A story about kiwi fruit (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at nature@cgtn.com.)