Editor's Note: China's congressional system is one of a kind, with deputies to the National People's Congress coming from all walks of life. In this special series, CGTN interviews deputies to find out how they represent the voice of the people and what they bring to the table at China's top legislature during the all-important Two Sessions this year. As an Olympic and Grand Slam ping pong champion, Li Xiaoxia knows the price that has to be paid to win. And she hopes more people can enjoy the sport without having to suffer as she did for a place at the top podium. Li left professional ping pong after winning women's team titles in the 2016 Rio Olympics. She then took up a teaching post at Shenyang University. "I thought about changing my career to be a gastronome after retiring [from the sport] because I love good food," she jokes as CGTN asks her about her life plans. The thought of becoming a university professor has long been rooted in Li's heart. But rigorous athletic training used to eat into the time she needed to take more general knowledge courses. She now hopes that being in a university environment will help her learn more. In China, Li is a well-known sports figure and her stardom carries on after her retirement. She married a teammate in the men's national group in 2017. The hashtag "Li Xiaoxia's wedding" garnered more than 14 million views on China's Twitter-like social media platform, Weibo. Later on, the topic of the birth of their first child attracted more than 20 million views on the same platform. On campus, Li's presence itself attracts many students to try picking up the racket out of a variety of other sports. Li says competitive sports and college sports training are completely different. She will not be too strict with these beginners in class and would joke with them as friends. The training of professional athletes was exceptionally arduous. Li still recalls the times when she had to insist on training even after severe injuries. "After all, there can only be one champion," Li puts it plainly. "Do let me know if any of you feel unwell," Li reminds her students. "I'll adjust the course content to match your physical condition," she adds. "As a university professor, I don't want my students to put scores first but I want them to truly feel the happiness brought by ping pong and learn the spirit of never giving up," Li says. During her career, Li seldom brought up the struggles she went through to win the women's singles and women's team titles in table tennis at the 2012 London Olympic Games. However, Li, who was also awarded the Best Female Athlete for the game, is now more open to sharing her experiences with others. Successive defeats in major games in 2007 and 2011 weighed on Li before the Olympics in 2012. She recalls flinging four or five iPads to the wall out of frustration while watching the finals where she was defeated. However torturous it was at the time, she did not stop her training. Today, Li hopes to pass on her professional knowledge to more ping pong enthusiasts in Liaoning Province, where her university is based, and where her athletic dream was nurtured since she was seven years old. This year, she was elected as a deputy to China's 14th National People's Congress (NPC) and has brought a proposal about promoting the development of sports at the Two Sessions. "My proposal is mainly about the development of teenagers in table tennis and more sports including suggesting more sports courses in schools to strengthen the awareness of the sport since childhood," she tells CGTN. China plans to build more public facilities and put out more sporting events to encourage more people to participate in building fitness. The country has set the goal to grow the value of the sports industry to 5 trillion yuan by 2025, according to the State Council. Li says she will continue to work towards making table tennis a sport for everyone and contribute to the development of local public sports. Reporter / Video editor: Olivia He Cameraman: Yang Ze Editor: Huo Li Copy editor: Teoh El Sen