Editor's note: Rabi Sankar Bosu is an Indian contributor to Chinese media outlets. He writes about Chinese politics, social and cultural issues, and China-India relations with a special interest in the Belt and Road Initiative. The article reflects the author's views, and not necessarily those of CGTN. On March 7, Chinese Foreign Minister Qin Gang's first news conference has captured much attention from the global audience as it took place when the world is facing many crises, such as the Ukraine crisis, which has entered its second year, polarizing the world. The China-U.S. relationship has also undergone rigorous disruptions. Qin answered questions from journalists in detail and painted a path as to how China would participate in international affairs in "building a community with a shared future for mankind." He praised building constructive relationships with other developing countries. Citing from Chinese President Xi Jinping's remarks, "China stands firmly against all forms of hegemonism and power politics, the Cold War mentality, interference in other countries' internal affairs, and double standards. China remains firm in pursuing an independent foreign policy of peace." Regarding Sino-U.S. relations, Qin said, "If one of the athletes, instead of focusing on giving one's best, always tries to trip or even injure the other, that is not fair competition but malicious confrontation and a foul." Accordingly, China-U.S. cooperation can usher in stronger Asia-Pacific stability. But cooperation and peaceful talks are necessary to move forward on a peaceful resolution. He criticized the U.S. shooting down a Chinese civilian unmanned airship hovering over the coast of South Carolina as per the order of U.S. President Joe Biden. Qin was speaking about America's handling of the balloon incident. His "athlete metaphor" stands as a powerful rebuke to America's interference in China's internal politics. In response to Washington meddling in Taiwan affairs and China's domestic affairs by the U.S. administration, Qin Gang warned that mishandling of the Taiwan question will shake the very foundation of China-U.S. relations. The foreign minister said, "America will not stop the rejuvenation of China" regardless of the U.S.'s "zero-sum" Cold War mentality towards China. When the Sino-Russia relations were addressed, Qin reaffirmed that their relationship is based on the principles of non-alliance, non-confrontation and non-targeting of third parties. Indeed, Beijing's relations with Moscow have withstood the test of time and will be unscathed despite the changing international situations. And regarding diplomatic ties with Europe, Qin said, "China-Europe relations are not targeted at, dependent on, or subjected to a third party." Meanwhile, a number of international media outlets have falsely accused China of backing Russia for its special military operation in Ukraine. Hence, Qin's assessment is important against the backdrop of the Western countries delivering weapons to Kyiv. "China did not create the crisis. It is not a party to the crisis, and does not provide weapons to either side. What has China done to deserve being blamed, or even sanctioned and threatened? This is absolutely unacceptable," he said. It's worth noting that on the first anniversary of the Russia-Ukraine conflict on February 24, China released a 12-point position paper on the political settlement of the Ukraine crisis. Stephane Dujarric, a spokesman for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, hailed China's position paper as "an important contribution." Qin responded to the Western politicians who are "finger-pointing" at China for the military escalation in Ukraine, by saying, "There seems to be 'an invisible hand' pushing for the protraction and escalation of the conflict and using the Ukraine crisis to serve certain geopolitical agenda." Over the years, China has promoted a multipolar world with peaceful coexistence as a fundamental pillar among all countries equally. Qin Gang has demonstrated much confidence in China's capacity to lead the international order through the China-initiated Belt and Road Initiative, Global Development Initiative and Global Security Initiative. It is believed that China, while "rejuvenating the Chinese nation," will extend its people-centered modernization path to other regions and countries to establish mutually beneficial relationships among the world players without conflict or confrontation. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)