Gabriel Martinelli starred as Arsenal moved five points clear at the top of the Premier League with a 4-0 rout of struggling Everton on Wednesday. Bukayo Saka broke Everton's stubborn resistance late in the first half before Brazilian forward Martinelli doubled Arsenal's lead at the Emirates Stadium. Martin Odegaard bagged the third and Martinelli wrapped up Arsenal's biggest victory since October on a night that could serve as another landmark moment in their surge towards the title. It was essential for Mikel Arteta's side to win their game in hand on second-placed Manchester City as the title race approaches its climax. With 13 games left, the victory keeps Arsenal in pole position to win the title for the first time since Arsene Wenger's 'Invincibles' in 2003-04. After wobbling during a run of three league games without a win that culminated with City knocking them off top spot with a 3-1 win at the Emirates, Arsenal have bounced back impressively. Three successive wins since the City defeat have taken the Gunners to 60 points, which is their joint-highest total after 25 Premier League fixtures, along with that famous 2003-04 campaign and 2007-08. "I'm delighted when I see the team play the way we want to. This league is a different story," Arteta said. "We had big proof of that at Goodison. I'm really happy with the maturity and quality we showed." Sean Dyche started his Everton reign with a shock 1-0 win against Arsenal at Goodison Park on February 4. But Everton have lost three times and won just once since then, leaving them sitting third bottom of the table. Elsewhere, Manchester United came from behind to beat West Ham 3-1 and reach the FA Cup quarterfinals. Three days after they won the League Cup, United trailed to Said Benrahma's 54th-minute goal at Old Trafford but an own goal by Nayef Aguerd and late strikes from Alejandro Garnacho and Fred sent the hosts into the last eight. Tottenham were dumped out of the FA Cup by Championship opposition for the second year in a row after Iliman Ndiaye fired promotion-chasing Sheffield United to a 1-0 win at Bramall Lane. Grimsby Town, 16th in League Two, continued their dream FA Cup run as two penalties by Gavan Holohan knocked out Southampton 2-1 on their own ground and sent the fourth-tier side into the last eight for the first time in 84 years. Championship leaders Burnley beat Fleetwood Town 1-0 in the other tie to set up a quarterfinal trip to champions Manchester City.