From historical and cultural sites to diverse natural landscapes, China is filled with stunning visuals that make it one of the most beautiful countries in the world! While most people - including filmmakers - are restricted to exploring the country from ground level, our new season of "Aerial China," an innovative and ambitious documentary series, again takes you up high into the sky. Soaring near the clouds with our camera and gazing down upon a magical land, this series offers audiences an entirely new perspective on the sights and scenes of a great country! Since debuting in 2017, "Aerial China" has provided a unique vantage point on 23 provincial-level regions in China, with each episode celebrating the history, culture, and natural beauty of a different area. In our fourth season, the airborne camera will sweep 11 major cities and regions, including Beijing, Guangxi, Qinghai, Hubei, and Hong Kong. Time to fasten your seatbelts for a feast of famous landmarks, high-rise buildings and breathtaking natural landscapes! In the Beijing episode, we start at the very center of China's capital: Tian'anmen Gate. No matter what aspect of Beijing you're interested in - its past and present, its nature and humanity, or its national and global presence - this episode gives the lowdown from on-high on a city that embodies the spirit of China in more than two hundred world-class tourist attractions. Liaoning Province, located in China's northeast, is regarded by many as the cradle of China's industry. Cruising over the region's "steel giant" on the sea, we get to learn more about the history of industry and manufacturing that has made this province what it is today. But it's not all about the wonders of human ingenuity. As we fly over the mountains, we'll witness some of the most adorable creatures on the face of the planet and also enjoy the maple leaves as they burst into a riot of colors before venturing to a maritime fairyland land that only local fishermen are privileged enough to see on a daily basis. Meanwhile, over in central China's Henan Province, we're offered a glamorous cultural feast that showcases the very best of Chinese civilization: an ancient mountain inextricably linked to the soul of the Chinese martial arts tradition, a city where the afterglow of the flourishing Tang Dynasty is still felt, a secluded Taoist retreat far from the worldly cares high up on Laojun Mountain - these are just some of the treats on offer. This episode leaves you in no doubt that the long history of the Yellow River and central China has left behind an enduring cultural legacy! Next door to Henan is Hubei Province - the place to witness the power of China's other great river: the mighty Yangtze, a river that has carved out mysterious canyons and a string of glittering lakes and which drives the stunning three-gorges dam. Further upstream stands the city of Chongqing, where we get the aerial perspective on a unique three-dimensional traffic network and some masterpieces of space utilization before discovering the traces left behind by movements in the earth's crust over the course of eons. But this is a series that voyages even further - even to the southern reaches of Guangxi - a place of spectacular dreamlike landscapes and heaven for gourmets. What's more, we'll see how in this land of wonders and beauty, precious cultural relics and age-old ethnic customs enable people to create new lives and enjoy them to the fullest! Watch these episodes to be premiered internationally during the coming Chinese New Year holiday, January 22 through 27 - and start on this journey in the sky! See China as you have never seen it before!