Chinese President Xi Jinping on Sunday exchanged congratulatory messages with Antigua and Barbuda's Governor-General Rodney Williams on the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries. Xi said Antigua and Barbuda is China's important partner in the Caribbean region and that the relations between the two countries have developed smoothly with time-honored mutual trust and productive cooperation over the past 40 years. Since the pandemic began, the two countries have rendered each other valuable support and helped each other through difficulties, opening a new chapter for China-Antigua and Barbuda relationship, Xi said. China highly values developing relations with Antigua and Barbuda, Xi said, expressing China's willingness to take the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties as a new starting point and work with Governor-General Rodney Williams to deepen cooperation in various fields and promote high-quality Belt and Road cooperation and jointly create a better future for bilateral relations. For his part, Williams said Antigua and Barbuda is very pleased to celebrate the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations with China, which marks an important milestone in bilateral ties. He said Antigua and Barbuda remains committed to maintaining and strengthening the friendly relationship between the two countries. On the same day, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang exchanged congratulatory messages with Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda Gaston Browne. Taking the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations as an opportunity, Li said he hoped China and Antigua and Barbuda will constantly advance the friendly and cooperative relationship and bring benefits to the two peoples. Browne said China-Antigua and Barbuda relations have matured since diplomatic ties were established. Antigua and Barbuda has adhered to the one-China policy, and China has provided generous assistance to Antigua and Barbuda, he said, adding that numerous achievements have been achieved in bilateral relations.