Nine-time champion Novak Djokovic breezed through to the second round while women's No. 2 seed Ons Jabeur had a shaky start amid searing heat at the Australian Open on Tuesday. Djokovic soaked up thunderous applause in his first match back at the Australian Open after last year's deportation drama, as he outclassed Roberto Carballes Baena 6-3, 6-4, 6-0 in a flawless start to his title bid. Djokovic, who can grab the world No. 1 ranking from Carlos Alcaraz by winning the title in Melbourne, saved three early break points to win the first set as fans chanted his name. "I felt very welcome on the court, especially the Serbian community that is big here in Australia has welcomed me in an incredible way. So much support. So much love," the 35-year-old told reporters. Second seed Casper Ruud of Norway overcame a third set hiccup to down Tomas Machac of the Czech Republic 6-3, 7-6 (6), 6-7 (5), 6-3. Fifth seed Andrey Rublev of Russia swept aside 2020 finalist Dominic Thiem of Austria 6-3, 6-4, 6-2 to storm into the second round. Former world No. 1 Andy Murray of Britain, a five-time finalist at Melbourne Park, claimed an epic win over 13th seed Matteo Berrettini of Italy 6-3, 6-3, 4-6, 6-7 (7), 7-6 (6). Former world No. 2 Alexander Zverev of Germany and eighth seed Taylor Fritz of the United States survived scares to win their opening matches. In the women's part, Jabeur of Tunisia made a nervous start as she strives for an elusive Grand Slam trophy. The Tunisian who was last year's Wimbledon and U.S. Open runner-up began her campaign with a 7-6 (8), 4-6, 6-1 victory over Tamara Zidansek of Slovenia. Fourth seed Caroline Garcia of France routed Canadian qualifier Katherine Sebov 6-3, 6-0 in 65 minutes, while fifth seed Aryna Sabalenka from Belarus also enjoyed a comfortable victory after beating the Czech Republic's Tereza Martincova 6-1, 6-4. After a stirring opening day, there was disappointment for China with Zhang Zhizhen losing a five-set thriller to American Ben Shelton 4-6, 6-3, 6-2, 2-6, 7-6 (4). World No. 96 Zhang fired five aces and 16 winners in the opening set to make a flying start. But too many errors forced Zhang to drop two straight sets. After Zhang got his form back in the fourth set and the decider progressed to 1-1 tie, a sudden downpour disrupted the rhythm of the 26-year-old Chinese, who lost the tiebreaker afterward and missed out on his third chance of entering the second round in a Grand Slam. "For me, I don't want that rain, because the match was in my favor before the timeout," Zhang told reporters. "Ben played his best tennis in the tiebreak without any errors, leaving me no opportunity to convert." Meanwhile, 21-year-old Wang Xiyu was no match for former world No.1 Karolina Pliskova from the Czech Republic, who won 6-1, 6-3 in a one-hour, four-minute clash. "I was quite nervous in the first set, because this is my first Grand Slam in 2023 and my opponent is a seed. She plays very aggressively and serves great. I need to get into the match faster and stay cool under pressure," said Wang. Wang will also compete in the women's doubles partnered with Magda Linette of Poland at this year's Australian Open. Another Chinese player Zhang Shuai's game was postponed due to rain.Top seeds Rafael Nadal and Iga Swiatek headline round two action on Wednesday. China's Wang Xinyu has a tough task against 10th seed Madison Keys from the United States, while 17-year-old Shang Juncheng faces American Frances Tiafoe. (With input from agencies)