The New York Giants defeated the Minnesota Vikings 31-24 in the NFL National Football Conference (NFC) Wild Card Game at U.S. Bank Stadium in Minneapolis, Minnesota, on Sunday, to advance to the NFC Divisional Round. The Vikings' quarterback (QB) Kirk Cousins completed 31 of his 39 passes for 273 yards and two touchdowns with no interception in Sunday's game. He only rushed once and no more than one yard, but it was good enough for the team to score a touchdown in their first drive. After kicker Greg Joseph scored the extra point, the Vikings led 7-0 very early in the first quarter. However, the Giants made an immediate response in their drive as running back Saquon Barkley scored a 28-yard rushing touchdown too. After kicker Graham Gano added the extra point for the team to tie the score 7-7. Then the Giants' defensive group kept the Vikings from driving no more than seven yards forward in three plays before having to punt. In the following drive of the Giants, QB Daniel Jones connected with wide receiver Isaiah Hodgins with a 14-yard pass for a touchdown. It took them only four plays to produce 81 yards. By contrast, the Vikings only drove 22 yards in five plays in their next offensive possession. Then came the most skillful offensive work in Sunday's game. The Giants completed as many as 20 plays in nearly 11 minutes in their following drive before Gano made a 25-yard field goal to extend their lead to 10 points (17-7). The team left the Vikings only a bit more than three minutes to attack before the first half ended. Nonetheless, Cousins made sure that the Vikings didn't finish the second quarter fruitless by completing four short passes, the last of which found wide receiver K.J. Osborn for a touchdown. After Joseph scored the extra point, they managed to keep cut their deficit to only three points (17-14). The Giants stole a march on the Vikings early in the third quarter. After Barkley and Hodgins drive 66 yards in three plays, Jones completed a 9-yard connection with tight end Daniel Bellinger to score the team's third touchdown and extend their lead to 10 points (24-14) again. The Vikings soon responded. They first counted on tight end T.J. Hockenson and wide receiver Adam Thielen to drive quickly to the end zone. Cousins then passed to tight end Irv Smith Jr. to cut their deficit to three points (24-21). Then the Vikings made the Giants taste their defensive power that kept the opponents from moving no longer than eight yards via six plays. The Vikings took their time in the following offensive drive and spent over six and a half minutes completing 12 plays before Joseph made a 38-yard field goal to tie the score 24-24. The Giants altered their strategy in the next possession to pass more. Jones completed four 10+yards connections with different players before Barkley got a chance to display his rushing power again in front of the end zone to score his second touchdown for his team to lead 31-24. The Giants blew their chance of sealing the deal when wide receiver Darius Slayton failed to catch the ball on 3rd & 15, leaving the Vikings about three minutes to make the final attempt. Nonetheless, the Giants' defensive group again made key contributions by knocking down three of Vikings' passes. Hockenson received a pass from Jones on 4th & 8, but he only ran three yards before being tackled by safety Xavier McKinney. Having got the ball back, Jones took a knee for the game to end. The Giants will challenge the NFC leaders Philadelphia Eagles in the Divisional Round on January 21. Other games on Sunday (away teams come first): Miami Dolphins 31-35 Buffalo Bills Baltimore Ravens 17-24 Cincinnati Bengals