The 2023 Spring Festival Gala, also known as Chunwan in Chinese, which was held last Saturday, has set a new viewership record with more than 16.216 billion people reached home and abroad, according to its broadcaster China Media Group (CMG) on Friday. CMG broadcasted published reports on the Spring Festival Gala to global audiences in 68 languages, with more than 1,000 media from 173 countries and regions broadcasting the gala live on Lunar New Year's Eve, which falls on January 21st this year. Cable News Network (CNN) continues to broadcast promos for the Spring Festival Gala on its regional channels and on its website and clients, reaching more than 395 million subscribers worldwide. The Japanese video platform Niconico rebroadcast CMG's Spring Festival Gala for the eighth year in a row. The total number of viewers reached over 130,000, and the program's favorable rate reached 93 percent. CMG translated and produced ten language versions of the 2023 Spring Festival Gala in English, Spanish, French, Arabic, Russian, and other languages, customizing the subtitles for global audiences, interpreting the performances and introducing relevant allusions and historical background, thoughtfully setting up questions to create engaging, interactive experiences, and strengthening the in-depth dissemination of the Spring Festival Gala's content. Spring Festival Gala promotional videos were played on more than 1,600 outdoor large screens and theater screens around the world and lit up many well-known landmarks, including the World Trade Center and Empire State Building in the United States, the Colosseum in Italy, and the tallest building in the world, Burj Khalifa in Dubai. A total of 3,334 reports about the Spring Festival Gala were released by China Global Television Network (CGTN) on all its platforms, with over 479 million views worldwide. To celebrate the Year of the Rabbit, CGTN hosted its Spring Festival special "Super Night" on the eve of the Chinese New Year, presenting splendid programs to audiences worldwide. The "New Year Rabbit Dance" online dance challenge, launched by multilingual hosts and anchors, has attracted over 340 million global readers.