China is taking various measures to ensure the supply of medicines, the logistics and the safety of vulnerable groups including the elderly, children and severely infected patients after the country released "a circular on further optimizing the COVID-19 response" last December, which marked easing of the dynamic zero-COVID policy, but led to a rise in infection cases in the country. The policy shift, according to health officials, is proactive rather than reactive, as the Chinese government has constantly optimized its COVID-19 response measures based on the evolvement of the pandemic and the deepening study on the virus. One of the illustrations is China's mass COVID-19 vaccinations from last year. To prepare for this first post zero-COVID wave, there was a significant increase in COVID-19 vaccinations. As of November 28, 2022, the number of people over the age of 60, who were at least partially vaccinated or fully vaccinated, reached 90.68 percent and 86.42 percent of the elderly population, respectively, according to the National Health Commission. The number of people over the age of 60 who had received booster shots reached 181.511 million. Since the COVID-19 policy got relaxed in December, and as China will further ease the COVID-19 policies by downgrading the management of COVID-19 from Class A to Class B starting from January 8, the country is going all out to ensure a smooth shifting. Ministries including transportation, agriculture and rural affairs, civil affairs and education have all made preparations and arrangements to cope with the mass infection which may cause a shortage of medical supplies and workers, disrupt freight logistics and expose many vulnerable groups to danger. China's railway operators have adopted flexible operating plans to increase transportation efficiency and ratchet up the transportation capacity in key areas and at peak hours to better cater to people's travel needs during the Spring Festival, which will see nearly 2.1 billion trips around the country. Wan Xiangdong, the chief pilot of the Civil Aviation Administration of China, said the administration will increase the average daily number of flights to 11,000 during the holiday, equivalent to 73 percent of the pre-pandemic level in 2019. He added that domestic aviation companies are encouraged to add more flights on popular routes to meet the demand of passengers during the travel rush. To ensure the unimpeded transportation of medical supplies, the country's State Post Bureau has urged companies to hire more delivery workers or temporary workers, to prompt work resumption. Distribution centers have also been encouraged to maximize their operation capacities by optimizing delivery routes, extending service hours and carrying out night deliveries to ensure the stable operations of postal and delivery services during the Spring Festival. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs also rolled out prevention and control measures in China's rural areas, including fortifying the coordination of urban and rural medical resources, equipping key medical and health supplies such as oxygenators and ambulances in rural areas, and establishing a mechanism of matching assistance between primary hospitals and superior hospitals so that smooth referrals can be guaranteed and people with severe diseases can get proper treatment. To ease medicine shortage in rural areas, the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council (JPCMSC) has set up a special supporting team and established a daily dispatch system to coordinate the distribution of medicines and other key medical supplies nationwide. And the National Health Commission (NHC) has also conducted a daily monitoring, reporting and dispatch system for rural health organizations. Once shortages of medical supplies, especially medicines, are found, they will take prompt measures to promote local governments to solve the problem. To ensure efficient and orderly operation and treatment of severely infected people in rural areas, local governments asked hospitals to strengthen daily contacts with key personnel and monitor their health so that once they're found in critical conditions, measures can be taken in the early stages. And the governments have also asked second- and third-tier public hospitals to allocate special personnel to take responsibility for the referral from first-tier hospitals, simplify the referral process and optimize the referral channel. The country's National Healthcare Security Administration (NHSA) on Saturday released a circular to further optimize medical insurance policies to ease the financial burden of COVID-19 patients. The document stipulates that all COVID-19 patients will receive subsidies from state finance for hospitalization expenses not covered by basic medical insurance, serious disease insurance, or the medical assistance fund, if they are admitted before April 1, 2023. Patients covered by medical insurance can have at least 70 percent of their fees generated from outpatient and emergency COVID-19 infection treatment at designated medical institutions reimbursed as of March 31, according to the circular.