The Memphis Grizzlies beat the Indiana Pacers 112-100 at FedExForum in Memphis, Tennessee, on Sunday, to end their five-game losing streak. The Grizzlies trailed by as many as 19 points (56-37) in the second quarter, but managed to wipe the deficit and then came back to win at home thanks to the incredible performance of Ja Morant. The Pacers have been in the bottom 10 on both offense and defense among the 30 NBA teams this season. Though they have Myles Turner, who averaged 2.4 blocks in 42 games, in their starting lineup, the team was both outsized and overpowered by the Grizzlies in all of the other for positions. Therefore, in spite of their fast defensive rotations, the Pacers still left the opponents a lot of open 3-pointers. The Grizzlies only had themselves to blame for missing 16 of their shots from downtown in the first half. Jaren Jackson Jr. and Morant became the team's only two players who were able to contribute consistently on the offensive end. Their bench squad was even outscored 7-30 by their Pacers counterpart. The Grizzlies were not concentrated enough on defense either in the first half. They allowed the Pacers' perimeter players to beat the first defensive layer too easily and then had to count on teammates for help defense at the cost of leaving massive open shots both in the two corners and under the hoop. The Pacers didn't shoot to kill, but at least they made better use of these opportunities than the Grizzlies did. The Grizzlies' counterstrike started from the defensive end in the second half. Their players worked harder in shutting Chris Duarte, T.J. McConnell and Buddy Hield out of the paint while placing greater pressure on the ball-handlers. As a result, the Pacers committed 13 turnovers in the third and fourth quarters. They also took more tough shots at a poor field goal (FG) rate of 38.9 percent during these two periods. Bennedict Mathurin became the only Pacer who could still score in a regular way in the final quarter as he contributed two thirds of the team's 21 points during this period. He was also the only one to reach 20+points on their roster. The Grizzlies biggest improvement on offense in the second half came from Morant. He struggled in jumpers (3-for-12) during most of the time in Sunday's game, but Morant made it up by charging the rim and launching early offense as much as possible. Moreover, he committed 11 assists in the third and fourth quarters, partly because his teammates shot better, and partly because of his ability to find them open in fast penetration. Morant had a triple-double of 27 points, 10 rebounds and 15 assists in the second game a in a row, helping the Grizzlies secure their first win in 10 days. Other games on Sunday (away teams come first): Miami Heat 117-122 Charlotte Hornets All five Hornets starters scored double-digit points at the Spectrum Center in Charlotte, North Carolina, on Sunday, for their team to get the second consecutive win. Terry Rozier, P.J. Washington, Gordon Hayward and LaMelo Ball combined to drain all of the team's 3-pointers after going 15-for-34 from downtown. The Heat wasted Jimmy Butler's high offensive efficiency of making 11 of his 14 FG attempts to score 28 points. Tyler Herro took more attempts (29) than Butler, but only made nine of them. He shot well behind the arc (5-for-9), but was very disappointing in finishing around and inside the paint. Los Angeles Clippers 99-122 Cleveland Cavaliers The Cavaliers' top scorer in Sunday's game at the Rocket Mortgage FieldHouse in Cleveland, Ohio, was Cedi Osman who went 11-for-13 from the field, including making all seven of his triples, to get 29 points. He played longer on the court than the team's ace Donovan Mitchell, not because Mitchell underperformed or was injured, but because the competition was long gone after the first half. The Clippers again had Kawhi Leonard and Paul George sit out Sunday's game. The team only scored 34 points in the first two quarters and trailed by as many as 40 points in the third quarter. Their five-game winning streak ended though the team remained fourth in the Western Conference. Their lead over the 11th Oklahoma City Thunder is only two games. New Orleans Pelicans 110-135 Milwaukee Bucks It took Giannis Antetokounmpo a bit more than 30 minutes to drop 50 points, 13 rebounds and four assists at Fiserv Forum in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, on Sunday. He shot 15-for-17 under the rim, reaching double-digit points in three of the four quarters. It's not surprising for the Pelicans to lose to the Bucks on the road since they rested three of their best players CJ McCollum, Brandon Ingram and Zion Williamson on Sunday. However, their losing streak already grew to eight and the team only won two of the past 13 games. The Pelicans already dropped to eighth in the West.