Despite witnessing another demoralizing defeat at Stamford Bridge on Thursday night, Chelsea supporters still wholeheartedly applauded their players off at the final whistle. They are well aware of how severe the Blues' injury problem is. It speaks volumes about Chelsea's current plight that manager Graham Potter had no choice but to send on three callow youngsters in Carney Chukwuemeka, Lewis Hall and Omari Hutchinson when his team, already without a number of senior players, lost established stars Raheem Sterling and Christian Pulisic to another injury during the opening stages of their clash with Manchester City. "It's tough at the moment I must admit and I feel for the boys," observed Potter afterwards. "We have to stick together. It was disappointing to lose those guys to injury but the players on the pitch and the ones that came in gave everything and that's all you can ask for." Fortunately, as Chelsea languishes in 10th place in the league table following their latest setback, reinforcement finally arrived. The Premier League giants confirmed that they have signed France defender Benoit Badiashile from Monaco for a seven-and-a-half-year contract. The 21-year-old is a graduate of Monaco's famed youth academy and has spent five seasons in French Ligue 1, making 135 league appearances along the way. Despite the ruthless exposure to top level football at such a young age, the defender has rarely looked flustered or rattled, and has consistently impressed with his blistering speed, intelligent movement and self-possession. "I'm very happy to be here at Chelsea. I can't wait to see the fans and start playing in the best league in the world," Badiashile told Chelsea's official website. "Badiashile already boasts significant experience in the French top flight and in Europe, where he has featured in the Champions League and Europa League for Monaco," read a club statement. "At 6ft 4in, Badiashile is a dominant defender in the air but equally comfortable with the ball at his feet, capable of playing short passes out from the back or switching the play with longer diagonals." "Benoit's growth over the last two-and-a-half seasons from a young player struggling to fully bring his talent to bear is testament to his and the staff's attitudes in adopting a higher professional standard," added Monaco sporting director Paul Mitchell. "Signing with one of Europe's biggest clubs is the fruit of the work being accomplished within our academy and first team and once again highlights Monaco's ability to develop young players to the highest level." The sentiment was echoed by Chelsea chairman Todd Boehly. "We're delighted to welcome Benoit to Chelsea," he said. "He's an excellent young player who has quickly established a strong reputation for himself and has a huge amount of experience for his young age. We are sure he will form an important part of our team in the years ahead." While Chelsea have managed to secure the service of Badiashile amid stiff competition, their move for Benfica's Enzo Fernandez has stalled. According to multiple reports in Portugal, the 21-year-old midfielder, who was voted best young player at the World Cup in Qatar after winning the ultimate prize with Argentina, has agreed to personal terms with Chelsea, but Benfica have insisted that Chelsea pay the full value of his 120 million euro ($126 million) buy-out clause if they want to sign him during the winter transfer window. Benfica coach Roger Schmidt later declared that the club have no intention of selling Fernandez. "There is a club who want our player," Schmidt told a press conference on Thursday. "They know that we don't want to sell the player, but they try to get the player on their side with a lot of money." "Enzo is a very good boy and a fantastic football player. We like him a lot and, of course, we want that he stays at Benfica... The situation for him is not so easy because he played the World Cup, he became world champion, he got offers," he added. "To make the player crazy and then to pretend they can pay the clause, and later they want to negotiate. It's disrespectful against all of us, against Benfica and I cannot accept what they are doing." Meanwhile in Germany, reigning champions Bayern Munich have announced the arrival of Ajax defender Daley Blind on a free transfer. The 32-year-old defender, who played a prominent role in the Netherlands' brilliant run to the World Cup quarterfinals in Qatar, terminated his contract with Ajax in December, paving the way to join Bayern this month. "I can hardly wait to play here. We've got the most important part of the season coming up, where it’s about titles – and a club like Bayern can win every trophy," Blind said in a statement. "The hunger for titles here at the club was key in my decision. I hope I can bring my experience to help the team." "We're delighted that Daley is joining our team," added Bayern Sporting Director Hasan Salihamidzic. "We're delighted that Daley is joining our team. Daley is a versatile defender, capable of playing on the left or in the center. "He has great international experience and leadership qualities. I'm sure he'll help us." Blind rose through the youth academy at Ajax and clinched seven league titles across his two trophy-laden spells with the club. During the 2012-13 season, he was named Dutch footballer of the year. "With pain in my heart and tears in my eyes I have to say goodbye to the club," said Blind in an emotional Twitter post. "Playing for Ajax is the best thing there is. Amsterdammers are often direct and demanding. That is also allowed, I like that and that is why I can always be honest with you. Together we have a special relationship and that was not always easy for me. "Sometimes I had the feeling that I was playing against some of you and sometimes I felt that I was criticized just a little faster than many other players. That is absolutely not why I'm leaving. This is not how I imagined my end at Ajax, but due to ‘circumstances’ it turned out that way. I hope the right time will come to say goodbye to you. "Make sure Ajax stays Ajax."