Manchester United and Manchester City will meet in the Premier League Manchester derby at Old Trafford in Manchester, England, on Saturday. Before this eye-catching game happens, Erik ten Hag, manager of United, said he doesn't care about the plans of his City counterpart Pep Guardiola for the coming competition. "I don't care about that, what he is thinking," ten Hag said at the press conference on Friday. "He did it more often and we are prepared for that, if he does different things. We have our principles, our rules of football." By "it" ten Hag was referring to what Guardiola said on Tuesday. "I would like to arrive against United with the average of minutes in the legs of the players quite similar because I have a few ideas, thoughts, ridiculous ones against United," Guardiola said back then. "I didn't watch the last [United] games. I have to see the way they play at home [against Charlton on Tuesday] and if they change something. I have to still review it. That is why I don't have a clear lineup against United." City have already beaten United in three straight games, including walking over the "Red Devils" 6-3 at the Etihad Stadium in October 2022. However, despite the painful loss, United currently are only four points behind City on the standings table and have won 15 of the 18 games since playing City on the road. They are on a good momentum and have no reason to stop now. "If you want to win trophies you have to compete with the best and City are the best, so we look forward to challenging them," ten Hag said. "We have good players but I am convinced our players are good enough to compete with all the players from Manchester City." United parted ways with Cristiano Ronaldo during the FIFA World Cup in Qatar and introduced on loan 30-year-old Wout Weghorst, who, though, won't play against City because he was not registered in time. According to ten Hag, United may sign more players before the winter transfer window closes on January 31. "If there are more opportunities we will be ready for that and looking for that but it has to be once again the right player," ten Hag said. "With the numbers here I think with the signing of Wout and development of some players here Alejandro Garnacho is the best example but also you see in the week Kobbie Mainoo and Facundo Pellistri, I think also we have some good young players that can also fight for their minutes."