Chinese President Xi Jinping recently replied to a letter from students of the Hungarian-Chinese bilingual school in Budapest, Hungary, encouraging more Hungarian youth to learn more about China and inherit and carry forward the friendship between the two countries. "My wife and I are very pleased to hear from you during the Spring Festival of the Year of the Rabbit," Xi said in the letter, adding that he still remembered the scene of communicating with teachers and students at the Hungarian-Chinese Bilingual School in 2009. Knowing that students have persisted in learning Chinese and are determined to contribute to China-Hungary friendship, Xi said "I give you a thumbs-up." China and Hungary share a long history and splendid culture, Xi pointed out, adding that the peoples of the two countries are traditionally friendly, and people-to-people and cultural exchanges are getting closer. Xi expressed his hope for more Hungarian youth to be interested in learning Chinese, take opportunities to visit China, and have a deeper understanding of China today as well as its history and culture. Established in September 2004, the Hungarian-Chinese Bilingual School is the only public full-time school in Central and Eastern Europe that uses Chinese and the language of the host country for teaching. It currently has 12 grades and 20 classes with more than 530 students. In October 2009, then-Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping visited Hungary and the Hungarian-Chinese bilingual school. On the eve of the Spring Festival this year, two students of the school sent a letter to Xi and his wife, Professor Peng Liyuan, on behalf of the whole school. They paid New Year greetings in accordance with Chinese customs, told about their feelings about learning Chinese at the school for 12 years, and expressed that they would come to China to study at universities and contribute to the friendship between Hungary and China. (Cover: The Hungarian-Chinese bilingual school in Budapest, Hungary, May 21, 2019. /Xinhua )