Underscoring the need for caution in delivering military aid to Ukraine, Chancellor Olaf Scholz made it clear that Germany would not send combat aircraft and ground troops to Kyiv. In an interview with German newspaper Tagesspiegel published on Sunday, Scholz sounded the alarm of an arms race among Western allies over sending weapons to help arm Ukraine in the ongoing conflict with Russia. "I can only advise against entering into a constant competition to outbid each other over weapons systems," he said. The German leader's remarks come days after Berlin announced that it agreed to send its advanced Leopard 2 tanks to Ukraine. Russia criticized the move, saying it could escalate and prolong the conflict. Read more: Germany approves long-awaited Leopard tanks for Ukraine Live updates: Russia sees U.S., Germany sending tanks to Ukraine as 'direct involvement' Scholz said that Germany is not a "warring party" to the conflict between Ukraine and Russia, and vowed to do everything to avoid escalations, Tagesspiegel reported on Saturday. "There must not be a war between Russia and NATO," he said. NATO's promise of tanks for Ukraine On January 25,  the German government agreed to provide Ukraine with 14 Leopard 2 battle tanks from its own stocks and allowed its customer countries to do the same. Hours later, U.S. President Joe Biden announced that his administration will provide Ukraine with 31 U.S.-made M1 Abrams tanks. A day later, the Canadian Defense Ministry announced it would send four Leopard 2 tanks to Ukraine and is considering sending more at a later date. Russia immediately slammed the Western promises over supply of heavy tanks, saying it saw the development as evidence of direct and growing U.S. and European involvement in the conflict. Ahead of the latest promised supplies, some other NATO countries had announced increasing weapon supplies to Ukraine, especially heavier weapons. Britain said on January 14 it would send 14 Challenger 2 main battle tanks to aid Ukraine's offensive against Russia, while Poland, the Netherlands, Norway and Spain, have either committed to or been considering sending Ukraine Leopard 2 tanks, though Berlin's approval – a re-export requirement – had not been given at that time. While Kyiv welcomed the tanks, expecting them to be a game-changer in the battle against Russia, analysts expressed concerns that such heavy weapons may intensify the situation, warning of the possibility of a direct war between Russia and NATO. Fyodor Lukyanov, research director of the Russian think tank Valdai International Discussion Club, said that delivering tanks in all likelihood will lead Russia and NATO to teeter on the brink of a direct conflict. Washington is "happy to delegate the right to participate in the escalation to its European allies, in particular Germany," Lukyanov was quoted by TASS news agency as saying. "Germany risks being drawn directly into the war as a result," Tino Chrupalla, co-leader of the far-right party Alternative for Germany, said on social media. Read more: West sends tanks to Ukraine Fighting intensifies in E Ukraine, Kyiv seeks more weapons amid protests (With input from agencies) (Cover: File photo of German Chancellor Olaf Scholz. /CFP)