Seven-time world champion Lewis Hamilton has recently shared his story of how racing has become his "superpower" amid "the most difficult part" of his life, formula1.com reported on Tuesday. Speaking to the On Purpose with Jay Shetty podcast, Hamilton recalled how he struggled at school. "I didn't find out until I was 16 that I was dyslexic," he said. "Fortunately, I came across a teacher that was actually caring, took me down that road and helped me discover a little bit more about myself and how I can better myself through education." "It wasn't really until I started racing that I was able to channel this emotion that I had into my driving. Superman was my favorite; he was a really inspiring character for me. Again, no superhero was of color, but you can still aspire to be like someone if they don't look like you," Hamilton said. "I remember going to karate and putting this helmet on in racing and it felt like it was my cloak ... my superpowers would come out when I was driving. I was battling with these kids, and I was able to do things that they seemed to not be able to do as well," he added. Now, Hamilton, 38, has collected seven F1 world titles, 103 race victories, 103 pole positions and 191 podium finishes. Speaking recently on the KTM Summer Grill podcast, Red Bull team principal Christian Horner said he hoped Daniel Ricciardo could rediscover his "passion" for the sport. Ricciardo will race for Red Bull as a third driver for 2023 instead of continuing his role in McLaren. "I think that Daniel had fallen out of love a little bit with F1," Horner said. "He's had a couple of really tough seasons, particularly [in 2022]. For him to play a supporting role to the race drivers, as our third driver, both back here in the factory and at events with all the commercial partners we have – as one of the most recognizable faces currently in and around F1 – for us it made a lot of sense.” "And I hope in the process, Daniel will rediscover his passion for F1, but we certainly have no plans to utilize him other than in that third driver role, to combine with the commercial activities that he will be performing," he said.