Editor's note: Decision Makers is a global platform for influential leaders to share their insights on events shaping today's world. Meifang Zhang is China's consul general in Belfast. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. China is in the midst of adjusting its response measures around the COVID-19 virus and its variants after a comprehensive assessment of the pandemic situation. This in itself should not be alarming, but encouraging, uplifting even, as any body of government led by responsible leaders will amend its approaches with new information, new conditions. It is the sign of good leadership, especially when applied with good science. What does this updated version of measures look like? And why is it receiving so much attention from the West and its media apparatus? Let us address these separately, as the answers and motives thereof require such. This adjustment of response measures includes: The reclassification of the virus to a Class B instead of the more serious Class A infectious diseases, and the management thereof in accordance with the law; The dropping of testing requirements for travelers upon arrival to China as well as previous quarantine requirements for those that test positive while in the country; In general, a shifting of focus from stemming infections to preventing severe cases and further minimizing the impact of COVID-19 on economic and social activities. These adjustments are consistent with China's science-based approach toward governance throughout the pandemic, one aligned with its national conditions. As with all nations, China knows best its capabilities and capacities in service to its people. Measured approaches have been taken throughout the pandemic accordingly. New measures are now being put into effect because of new national conditions, such as the improvements in understanding of the virus and increased capacity to ensure healthy and safe traveling. Moreover, vaccine production levels have reached 7 billion doses annually, and the supply of relevant medicines and antigen testing reagents are ensured across the country. This is what responsible leadership does; this is what China's leadership continues to do, with the safety and well-being of its people at the forefront of all decisions at all times. Yet, the demand for "truth" remains, and that raises the second question to be addressed: Why exactly is this updating of China’s policies and practices around COVID-19 receiving so much attention by Western media and governments – and unflatteringly so? The truth? Life and work are returning to normal not only in the capital Beijing but across all of China. This is good news in terms of honoring the will of the people as well as their health, wealth and happiness. The anti-China sentiment and false narratives driven by Western media and government apparatus serve no useful purpose. They are stoking fear as a means of justifying the actions of certain nations and its leaders at the demise of truth. The world is ushering in a new paradigm, one that places the needs of the many over those of the few. And in doing so promises a new era of prosperity and vitality for all nations under the spirit of acceptance and cooperation. This is a narrative that will ultimately hold as truth for all. All the challenges we face can only be addressed together for a more promising and better tomorrow for all. We may only make provision for and overcome global challenges by forging a new and better way through building "bridges." There will be no place for "walls" in the future. Let us get on with more constructive means of construction, and tell a better story for future humanity, by simply telling the truth while on this adjoined journey. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)