Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva condemned the invasion of supporters of far-right former President Jair Bolsonaro into the country's Congress, presidential palace and Supreme Court on Sunday. They would be punished "with the full force of law," Lula said. Lula also announced a federal security intervention in Brasilia lasting until January 31 after capital security forces were initially overwhelmed by the invaders. Local media reported Brazilian security forces have retaken the Congress building from the rioters, while operations were still underway in the Supreme Court headquarters and the presidential offices. At least 400 people have been arrested after pro-Bolsonaro supporters stormed key government buildings in Brazil's capital, said Ibaneis Rocha, the governor of the country's Federal District. Bolsonaro tweeted, "Peaceful demonstrations, in the form of the law, as part of democracy. However, depredations and invasions of public buildings as occurred today, as well as those practiced by the left in 2013 and 2017, escape the rule." With thousands of protesters clad in Brazilian football shirts and flags ransacking the heart of the Brazilian state, the dramatic scenes came just a week after Lula's inauguration. Bolsonaro supporters have been protesting outside army bases in Brazil, calling for a military intervention to stop Lula from taking power since he narrowly defeated Bolsonaro in the October 30 runoff election. World leaders condemn mob attacks UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres condemned the assault on Brazil's democratic institution. "The will of the Brazilian people and the country's institutions must be respected. I am confident that it will be so. Brazil is a great democratic country," Guterres tweeted. U.S. President Joe Biden wrote on his Twitter account, "I condemn the assault on democracy and on the peaceful transfer of power in Brazil. Brazil's democratic institutions have our full support and the will of the Brazilian people must not be undermined. I look forward to continuing to work with @LulaOficial." Argentine President Alberto Fernandez also assailed the "coup attempt" by Bolsonaro's supporters. Fellow South American leaders in Chile, Colombia and Venezuela deplored the mob action, and French President Emmanuel Macron tweeted his support for Lula. "The will of the Brazilian people and the democratic institutions must be respected," Macron tweeted. The European Union's top foreign affairs official, Josep Borrell, tweeted that he was "appalled by the acts of violence and illegal occupation of Brasilia's government quarter by violent extremists today," adding "Brazilian democracy will prevail over violence and extremism." Political leaders from other countries including Mexico, Chile and Venezuela also jointed the international condemnations against the mob attacks. (With input from agencies)