President Xi Jinping on Wednesday extended festive greetings to all Chinese people when he held virtual talks with the general public from across the country ahead of the Spring Festival. President Xi, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, spoke with medical workers in a hospital, senior citizens at a welfare home, workers at an outlying oilfield, travelers and staff members at a high-speed railway station, vendors and customers at a wholesale market, and people in an ethnic minority village via video link. Xi wished Chinese people of all ethnic groups healthy and happy lives in the Year of the Rabbit and expressed his hope that the country will enjoy prosperity. Warm care, sincere concern Xi communicated with healthcare workers and hospitalized patients from the First Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical University via video link. Upon hearing the number of acute and critically ill patients is decreasing, wards and beds are sufficient and medicines are well prepared, Xi said he felt delighted. "We have now entered a new phase of COVID-19 response. Tough challenges remain, but the light of hope is right in front of us. Perseverance means victory," he said. The country had made "the right choice" to deal with the COVID-19 epidemic with strict measures over the past nearly three years, Xi said, adding that China has thus withstood several rounds of outbreaks of virus mutations. China has lowered the proportion of severe cases and the case fatality rate to the greatest extent possible, protected people's lives and health, and bought precious time for the later moves to optimize response and downgrade the management of COVID-19, Xi said. The focus of the current COVID-19 response has shifted from infection prevention to medical treatment, with protecting people's health and preventing severe cases being the priority, said Xi, noting that hospitals are now undertaking more arduous tasks. Xi demanded efforts to increase medical resources and the supply of medical services and drugs, and to prepare for medical treatment of severe cases in particular. While talking via video link with older people and staffers at a welfare home in Fuzhou, capital of east China's Fujian Province, on the same day, Xi said stricter epidemic prevention and health management measures should be taken at nursing homes and welfare facilities to prevent clusters of infection, as older people are the top priority in the current COVID-19 response stage. Chatting with villagers in Mianyang, southwest China's Sichuan Province, via video link, Xi said he was primarily concerned about rural areas and rural residents after the country adjusted its COVID-19 response measures. Xi stressed efforts to improve medical care for those most vulnerable to the virus in rural areas, and ensure the health of rural residents and their normal running of work and life to the maximum extent possible. When talking with employees of the Tarim oilfield in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region via video link, Xi urged them to stand on guard and provide energy to ensure that the people have a happy and peaceful Spring Festival. Energy security concerns the overall economic and social development of our country, Xi said, urging all departments in all regions to meticulously organize and dispatch, and make every effort to ensure the supply and price stability of coal, electricity, petroleum and natural gas. He stressed the importance of being fully prepared to deal with possible extreme cold waves, guaranteeing energy supply and ensuring people stay warm this winter. Xi said state-owned enterprises are the "pillars" of energy supply guarantee, calling for all-out efforts to increase output and ensure supply to meet the energy consumption needs of economic and social development. Xi inquired in detail about the current daily passenger flow, the implementation of the COVID-19 response and measures taken on public security when talking with passenger railway staff of Zhengzhou East Railway Station. Xi asked them to carefully organize and dispatch, and strictly abide to the bottom line of safety to ensure the safe travel of passengers. Through video link, Xi extended his festive greetings to railway staff and talked with passengers on the station platform. He asked the passengers if they were heading back home for family reunions or out traveling, and reminded them of safety awareness during their trips. Xi underscored the importance of the Spring Festival travel to people's immediate interests, economic development and social stability. He said this year's Spring Festival travel rush is the first after the country entered a new phase of COVID response, with a major recovery of passenger flows. He urged efforts to ensure safe trips for the people and smooth and orderly flows of essential supplies. Xi also called for efforts to strengthen the monitoring and early warning of extreme weather conditions and carry out safety overhauls to prevent major safety accidents. The Chinese president demanded strict implementation of anti-COVID measures to reduce infection risks to the minimum. When talking with vendors and customers at the Xinfadi wholesale market, a major fresh-produce marketplace in Beijing, Xi said people's "vegetable basket," "rice bag" and "fruit plate" are related to thousands of households and are the most basic livelihood of the people. To his delight, Xi heard that the food price was stable and the provision of various produce was sufficient. Xi called for redoubled efforts to ensure sound production, sale and supply of essential commodities such as grain, edible oil, meat, eggs, milk, fruits and vegetables. Smooth delivery, sufficient and diversified provisions, and the stable market price of these commodities should be guaranteed during the holiday so that people can have a happy and sound Chinese New Year, Xi said. Speaking with villagers and tourists in Shiyi Village in southwest China's Sichuan Province, Xi called on them to strive for common prosperity to make their lives better. Xi extended festive greetings to the villagers and tourists, and he also sent Spring Festival wishes to all rural residents across China and those working hard on the frontline in the country's rural revitalization cause. He asked local officials and tourists about the village's tourism. Hearing positive feedback, Xi stressed the role of agricultural specialties and rural tourism in the rural revitalization of the new era. Best wishes, new action Xi said that although he couldn't join the people ahead of the Spring Festival as he had done in previous years, he could still feel the strong festive atmosphere and the happiness and joy of the people in front of the screen. He added that his heart is linked with the hearts of the masses. Xi expressed his sincere greetings to the general public and to those who are still working hard at their posts. Noting that Chinese New Year's Eve and the Spring Festival are two traditional Chinese festivals for family reunion and ringing out the old and ringing in the new, Xi said his greatest wish is that everyone can have a happy Spring Festival. He urged Party committees and governments at all levels to guarantee the supply of power, natural gas and heating, carry out the "vegetable basket" and "rice bag" programs, and enhance food safety supervision during the holiday season. Meanwhile, he underlined the importance of implementing optimized COVID-19 control and prevention measures and preventing various emergencies and security incidents, so as to ensure that people can enjoy a happy, stable and peaceful holiday. Xi appreciated the efforts and contributions made by the general public to overcome all kinds of difficulties and challenges in the past year, which was extraordinary and difficult. As the 2023 is the first year of fully carrying out the spirit of the 20th CPC National Congress, Xi called for the general public to reinforce their confidence and perk up, pooling their efforts together and work hard to make greater achievements in the new year. (With input from Xinhua)