China Media Group (CMG) on Wednesday released the broadcasting plans of "10 Golden Sports Tournaments," "10 Golden Sports Leagues" and home-made events held by CMG and the General Administration of Sport of China in cooperation for 2023. CMG President Shen Haixiong attended the ceremony and announced the plans together with guests including deputy director of the General Administration of Sport of China Liu Guoyong, Chinese Basketball Association President Yao Ming and the Asian Games Hangzhou Organizing Committee Press & Public Relations Department director Xu Deqing. The "10 Golden Sports Tournaments" are: the Asian Games in Hangzhou, Summer World University Games in Chengdu, Sudirman Cup, FIBA Basketball World Cup, FIVB Volleyball Women's Nations League, World Aquatics Championships, World Athletics Championships, World Table Tennis Championships, World Short Track Speed Skating Championships and World Figure Skating Championships. The Asian Games in Hangzhou and Summer World University Games in Chengdu will be two of the biggest international universal sports events held in China in 2023. CMG, as the major broadcasting body of the two events, will bring the best coverage of all the competitions to audience around the world via new technologies and forms while producing a real, solid and all-round image of China. The "10 Golden Sports Leagues" are: the CBA, Chinese Super League, NBA, UEFA Champions League, Bundesliga, Premier League, Serie A, Ligue 1, NHL and Formula One World Championship. CMG has assembled a great broadcasting combination of two sports channels CCTV-5 and CCTV-5+, CMG Olympic Channel (CCTV-16) and other platforms to produce the most professional coverage for sports fans. The Olympic Channel will provide more broadcasting 4K resolution. Moreover, CMG has been working with the General Administration of Sport of China to present a series of home-made events in 2023, including the China Tennis Tour, China Handball Super League, China Frisbee League, China Curling League and China Dragon Boat Race. Back in 2022, CMG did a wonderful job of broadcasting and reporting the Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games as well as the FIFA World Cup in Qatar with world-leading 4K/8K technologies. It won five Olympic Golden Rings awards and signed a cooperation agreement with the Olympic Broadcasting Services (OBS) on the production of international broadcast feed for the Paris 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games. Cao Yi, director of CMG's sports and youth program center, said at the ceremony that sports broadcasting is an important part of CMG's development. In 2023, CMG will stick to the guidance of the spirit of the 20th Communist Party of China (CPC) National Congress and continue to produce quality coverage of top sports events by implementing new concepts, new technologies and new forms. CMG will also deepen its cooperation with the General Administration of Sport of China to develop more home-made events brands and tell better Chinese sports stories. Senior officials of FIBA, Badminton World Federation, Bundesliga and other international sports organizations sent their congratulations for the ceremony via video chatting and expected to have more cooperation with CMG in the future.