Damar Hamlin, the safety of the Buffalo Bills, is currently in critical condition at the University of Cincinnati Medical Center after suffering a cardiac arrest during the game against the Cincinnati Bengals at Paycor Stadium in Cincinnati, Ohio, according to the Bills in a statement on Tuesday. "Damar Hamlin suffered a cardiac arrest following a hit in the Buffalo Bills' game versus the Cincinnati Bengals. His heartbeat was restored on the field, and he was transferred to the University of Cincinnati Medical Center for further testing and treatment. He is currently sedated and listed in critical condition," the Bills said. In the first quarter of the game against the Bengals, Hamlin suddenly collapsed on the field after tackling the Bengals' wide receiver Tee Higgins. He first received oxygen and then was placed in an ambulance which took him to the University of Cincinnati Medical Center. The game was paused and then postponed. "Our thoughts are with Damar and the Buffalo Bills. We will provide more information as it becomes available," the NFL said in a statement on Monday. "The NFL has been in constant communication with the NFL Players Association, which is in agreement with postponing the game." "The NFLPA and everyone in our community is praying for Damar Hamlin," the NFL Players Association said in a statement. "We have been in touch with Bills and Bengals players and with the NFL. The only thing that matters at this moment is Damar's health and well-being." Hamlin's teammate wide receiver Stefon Diggs and the Bengals' head coach Zac Taylor went to the hospital later, where fans were already gathering outside. "Please pray for our brother," the Bills' quarterback Josh Allen posted on Twitter. "My prayers and thoughts go out to @HamlinIsland the Hamlin Family. I'm praying that you pull through bro. Love ???," Higgins tweeted. Having started in 13 games for the Bills this season before Monday, Hamlin had 91 tackles, the second-most on their roster. He also forced one fumble and 1.5 sacks. The Bengals led 7-3 before the game was paused. Both teams have already secured qualification for the playoffs, but the Bills are still competing with the Kansas City Chiefs for the leader position in the American Football Conference to get a bye in the first round of the postseason.