China was highly appraised for its achievements in COVID-19 prevention and control, according to a global poll launched by CGTN Think Tank and the Chinese Institute of Public Opinion of Renmin University of China. The global survey covered 21 countries, including the United States, Britain, France, Germany and Italy, of which 88.1 percent of respondents recognized China's achievements in epidemic prevention and control over the past three years, and the figure was 93.4 percent among respondents from Asian, African and Latin American countries. China has been upholding to the principle of "putting the people and their lives first" and optimizing its epidemic response in its three-year fight against the virus. The country launched the world's largest vaccination campaign and managed to protect key populations. So far, there are more than 6.63 million deaths due to COVID-19 globally, and China's severe cases and death rates are among the lowest. The survey showed that 71.6 percent respondents recognized China's dynamic adjustments to its COVID-19 policies. Regarding China's preparations to downgrade its infectious disease management from Class A to Class B, 76.2 percent of respondents considered the relevant measures to be positive and effective. These measures include opening as many fever clinics as possible to meet public demand for medical services, increasing the number of ICU beds, and ensuring timely admissions for severe and critically-ill patients. The figure was even higher among Asian, African and Latin American respondents at 82.5 percent. China's average annual economic growth rate over the past three years was 4.5 percent. In 2022, its GDP exceeded 121 trillion yuan (about $17.8 trillion). 86.8 percent of global respondents recognized China's efforts in coordinating epidemic prevention and control with economic and social development, and the figure was as over 91 percent among respondents from Asian, African and Latin American countries. Around three quarters of respondents from Western countries also gave a positive view of China's performance regarding this. China has provided more than 2.2 billion doses of COVID-19 vaccine to more than 120 countries and international organizations, and provided a large number of protective suits, ventilators, masks and other supplies to 153 countries and 15 international organizations over the past three years. According to the survey, over 85 percent of respondents spoke highly of China's contribution to the global defenses against the COVID-19. In Nigeria and Pakistan, where Chinese vaccines have been donated, 88 percent of respondents believed Chinese vaccines were safe and effective. Some Western media have been criticizing China's three-year epidemic prevention policies, whether it imposed strict or relaxed controls. Of those surveyed who thought the reports were unfair, 77.7 percent said these reports were politically biased, compared with 70 percent in Western countries. As for some countries imposing COVID-19 restrictions on Chinese travelers, over 70 percent of respondents believed it is wrong to politicize the epidemic, and around 68 percent said such discriminatory measures should be withdrawn immediately. The survey also showed that 96.6 percent of respondents called on countries to put aside prejudice and join hands to tackle challenges. (Cover: People stroll along Qianmen Street in Beijing, China, January 25, 2023. /CFP)