Editor's note: Decision Makers is a global platform for influential leaders to share their insights on events shaping today's world. Gurbanguly Berdymukhamedov is the Chairman of the People's Council of Turkmenistan. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. Turkmenistan-China relations have a history stretching back to thousands of years, during which our peoples have carried out positive interactions, and the two countries have blended with each other in terms of culture, tradition and worldview. The great Silk Road connecting the two countries has been a bridge not only for mutually beneficial trade but also for cultural exchanges. Turkmenistan-China relations have enjoyed a tremendously positive influence on the destiny of our peoples, providing a solid foundation for us to inherit and pass on this unique experience and to deepen our ties under the current situation. Turkmenistan-China relations are a model of international relations. Effective mechanisms and solid legal foundations have been established for exchanges between the two sides in various fields. The friendly exchanges between the two countries and peoples are becoming more fruitful, laying a solid foundation for friendship between the two sides for decades to come. Full mutual understanding is what underpins the current Turkmenistan-China relations, as the two countries share the same view on the priority areas of bilateral relations, the prospects for cooperation and the global development trends. The most important of these is our similar or identical positions on issues such as ensuring general stability and security and combating separatism, extremism and terrorism. Together with China, we advocate for fairness and justice in international affairs, promote the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals, and support the measures taken by the international community to address global challenges. In September 2013, the two countries signed the Joint Declaration on Establishing Strategic Partnership Between the People's Republic of China and Turkmenistan, taking Turkmenistan-China cooperation to a new level. This joint declaration constitutes the framework for current relations between the two sides and defines the nature, direction and content of Turkmenistan-China relations. Turkmenistan has maintained a firm position on the key concerns of our Chinese friends, including issues related to China's territorial integrity and national unity. We uphold the one-China principle and oppose any form of separatism. The connections between the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) proposed by China and Turkmenistan's development strategy for the "Revival of the Silk Road" have deepened and injected strong momentum into the economic development of Eurasia, linking the vast area from the Pacific Ocean to the Atlantic Ocean with modern principles. A web of interconnected technological and industrial chains, as well as industrial belts is taking shape, which could solve many social problems and improve people's quality of life and well-being. I believe the cornerstone of our new geo-economics should be connected to diversified cooperation. Accordingly, the development strategy of the "Revival of the Silk Road" is compatible with the BRI in philosophical and geo-economic terms. One of the most important aspects of Turkmenistan-China cooperation is the energy field, as evidenced by the completion and launch of the Turkmenistan-China gas pipeline at the end of 2009. The project is a true partnership based on equality and understanding of our respective advantages and the prosperity the gas pipeline holds. In view of the growing demand for gas of the Chinese economy and the potential of Turkmenistan's resources, we are considering increasing gas supply to China. We stand ready to start substantive talks with China on the feasibility of building a fourth gas pipeline from Turkmenistan to the country. Both sides attach much significance to the development of transport cooperation. Presently, Turkmenistan is working with partners to build an extensive network of transit transport and logistics infrastructures along the east-west and north-south axes. The network is expected to cover transit corridors to the Caspian Sea, Black Sea and Baltic Sea. This will open up an excellent land route from the Asia-Pacific region through Central Asia to markets in Europe and Middle East. The potential for Turkmenistan-China cooperation in this area is enormous. Turkmenistan closely monitors the development of China and is pleased with the nation's achievements. In a very short period of its history, China has emerged as a world pioneer in economic and scientific development, with robust growth in industrial output and the completion of many large-scale social development programs. China has managed to pull off an outstanding achievement ‒ the eradication of absolute poverty. Today, China is taking confident steps towards building a modern socialist country in an all-round way. There is no doubt that the above brilliant achievements are made possible by the political will, strong determination and correct strategic policies of the Communist Party of China, as well as the understanding and support of the Chinese people. I speak highly of the role Chinese President Xi Jinping has played in the governance of China. He is one of the most outstanding and influential leaders of our times. I would like to express my deep gratitude to President Xi for his immeasurable contribution to the development of the Turkmenistan-China strategic partnership and for the long-standing attention and importance he attaches to our bilateral relations. The concept of building a community with a shared future for mankind put forward by President Xi includes one for Turkmenistan and China. This is a concept very rich in content and profound in meaning. It provides a major opportunity for the development of bilateral relations between Turkmenistan and China and for safeguarding global peace and security. It also creates prerequisites for effective international cooperation around the implementation of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and for overcoming new threats and challenges. Turkmenistan has launched the global initiative "Dialogue is the Guarantee of Peace," while President Xi has launched the Global Development Initiative and Global Security Initiative. These initiatives share a common world outlook and political foundation, as they all call for a sober and responsible understanding of contemporary world realities by all countries and their leaders. Turkmenistan remains committed to strengthening friendship, brotherhood and cooperation with the People's Republic of China! The two countries and peoples will continue to walk hand in hand with confidence along the road to progress and prosperity! (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)