Zhang Weili, the current Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) Women's Strawweight Champion of China, wrapped up her 2022 in one word, "growth," at a UFC fans event in Beijing on Friday. 2022 was a very successful year for Zhang, who first beat Joanna Jedrzejczyk of Poland in the rematch at UFC 275 on June 11, 2022, to earn the right to challenge Carla Esparza of the U.S. for the Strawweight belt. Then Zhang defeated Esparza with a rear-naked choke submission in the second round at UFC 281 on November 12, 2022 to regain the title. "If I have to pick one word to describe 2022, I want to say 'growth,'" Zhang said. "Because I have grown a lot in both skills and mindset. So has my team." The victory in 2022 made Zhang the Strawweight champion again after winning it in 2019 for the first time. She felt in different ways on the two occasions: The first time was a dream come true; the second time was surpassing herself. "Regaining the belt means so much to me. It feels too good to surpass myself," Zhang told Xinhua News Agency. "No matter how long it takes, no matter whom I have to fight, my goal last year was to gain the belt back. That's what everyone on my team wanted, and I did it." Zhang believes that keeping a calm and peaceful mindset was key to her performance in 2022. "No matter what business you are in, the closer you are to the top, the more important for you to remain calm and collected," she said. "I have been adjusting my mindset to stay calm and peaceful, to avoid attaching too much importance to many things, and to set myself free from invisible pressure." "I think I changed a lot mentally in 2022 and that's why I could regain the belt," Zhang added. "I have 100 percent confidence in myself no matter whom I fight. I don't think about the result, but only focus on everyday training. I do well in every session and do every detail right. I enjoy every fight and show my best form. That's good enough for me." When asked about her plan for 2023, Zhang said she wants to have two fights this year and do one of them in China.