The eagerly-awaited FA Cup face-off between the Premier League champions Manchester City and current leaders Arsenal was billed as a rehearsal for their extremely vital league meeting in February with the title on the line. The Gunners have established a formidable five-point lead in the league, but during this intensely fought cup tie at the Etihad, Pep Guardiola's resilient Manchester side displayed a rare hunger to land a psychological blow on their London rivals and ultimately edged out Mikel Arteta's team thanks to Nathan Ake's 64th-minute wonder strike. Argentina striker Julian Alvarez, who scored four goals in his home nation's World Cup winning run in Qatar last month, played a huge part in the breakthrough. It was the 22-year-old's long-range effort that hit the post and was collected by Jack Grealish, who then smartly placed the ball to Ake for a calm finish with his less-favored right foot. "It was the first one I ever scored with my right foot so pleased with that," said Ake. It's worth noting that both of the Dutch defender's goals this term have been game-winning goals (GWG). That is tied for most GWG this season among defenders at Premier League clubs, along with Arsenal's Gabriel. He also joins Joao Cancelo as the only City defenders with multiple goals this campaign. "What a season Ake is playing," beamed Guardiola afterward. "He is really good in the duels in the box, defending the far post and set pieces is an extra bonus. He is an exceptional guy, there was a period where he didn't play and he never complained once." This was just Arsenal's fourth defeat of the season and their first since November, but they have now lost 13 of their last 14 games against City in all competitions, including each of the last six. It remains to be seen whether it will have a crucial impact on their mindset. They are out of both the FA Cup and the League Cup, and there is no doubt where the focus should be now. The difficult task now facing Arteta is to ensure this setback will not affect Arsenal's push for a first league title in two decades, with City ready to take advantage should they press the self destruct button. "I'm really disappointed about the result today," observed Arteta during the post-match press conference. "I think we could have got much more out of the game. The [Ake] goal decided the game but it was a tight game and that one action changed it all. I think we could have dealt with it much better in terms of our discipline when the ball was in the box." Arteta may regret making six changes with Martin Odegaard and Gabriel Martinelli among those key stars left on the bench, while Guardiola chose a stronger line-up. But there was enough for Arteta to be encouraged by as Rob Holding and his other second-string players impressed throughout and perfectly tamed City top scorer Erling Haaland. The imposing Norway talisman, whose hat-trick against Wolves last weekend extended his Premier League tally to a stunning 25 in just 19 appearances, looked a frustrated figure in a City shirt for the first time this season. Aided by his defenders, Arsenal's back-up goalkeeper Matt Turner also proved his worth when he deftly raced out of his penalty area to cut short City attacks led by Haaland and Kevin De Bruyne on several occasions. For what it's worth, Leandro Trossard offered another bright spot for Arteta. The Belgian international, who made his full debut for Arsenal since his move from Brighton during this winter transfer window, caused all sorts of problems for City center-back John Stones, who was forced off with a hamstring injury before half-time. On this evidence, Trossard could be instrumental in Arsenal's title pursuit as they turn attentions back to the Premier League. The appetizer has been served, but there is a more conseqeuntial main course on the way.