As Zhang Shuai of China lost to Karolina Pliskova of the Czech Republic 0-2 (0-6 and 4-6) in the women's singles Round of 16 match in the Australian Open at Melbourne Park on Monday, all nine players from the Chinese mainland finished their singles competitions in the first Grand Slam event in 2023. Reaching the Round of 16 was Zhang's second-best record in the Australian Open as she made the quarterfinals in 2016. As the No. 23 seed of the tournament, she defeated Patricia Maria Tig of Romania, Petra Martic of Croatia and Katie Volynets of the U.S. in the previous matches. Zhu Lin participated in the Australian Open for this first time this year. She went all the way to the women's singles Round of 16 after beating Rebecca Marino of Canada, Jil Teichmann of Switzerland and Maria Sakkari of Greece in the first three rounds. Though Zhu lost to Victoria Azarenka of Belarus on Sunday, her performance was remarkable enough after winning the first set against the former world No. 1 and two-time Australian Open champion. Wang Xinyu knocked out home player Storm Hunter in the women's singles first round and then lost to Madison Keys of the U.S. in the second round, which matched her best record in the Australian Open. In her second trip in the Australian Open, Zheng Qinwen advanced to the women's singles second round, where she was eliminated by Bernarda Pera of the U.S. Before that, Zheng defeated Dalma Galfi of Hungary. Wang Xiyu finished her competition in the Grand Slam tournament after losing to Pliskova in the women's singles first round. Yuan Yue wrapped up her debut at Melbourne Park in the women's singles first round as well. She lost to Sakkari. In the men's singles competitions, Shang Juncheng was the best-performing player of China. He beat Oscar Otte of Germany to become the first player from the Chinese mainland to advance to the men's singles second round in the Australian Open since the event began 118 years ago. Shang lost to Frances Tiafoe of the U.S. in the second round. Zhang Zhizhen came very close to going through the first round as well. He lost to Ben Shelton of the U.S. Wu Yibing also battled five sets against Corentin Moutet of France in the first round. (Cover photo: Zhang Shuai of China competes in the women's singles Round of 16 match against Karolina Pliskova of the Czech Republic in the Australian Open at Melbourne Park in Melbourne, Australia, January 23, 2023. /CFP)