China's top seeded women's player Zhang Shuai swept past Petra Martic in straight sets on Thursday to book a spot in the Australian Open third round. Zhang, the 23rd seed, beat Martic of Croatia 6-3, 6-3 in 73 minutes. The result was achieved exactly seven years after her first victory at a Grand Slam, which kick-started Zhang's fairytale quarterfinal run at the Australian Open in 2016. "I am always feeling good at the Australian Open because it is special for me," Zhang said. "I'm feeling so happy. I think all the hard work is working and made me improve a little bit every day." It was an impressive follow-up performance after 33-year-old Zhang had defeated Patricia Maria Tig of Romania 6-1, 4-6, 6-0 in a first round match on Wednesday that was rescheduled due to Melbourne's wild weather on Tuesday. Zhang's victory set up a third round clash with American qualifier Katie Volynets, who stunned ninth seed Veronika Kudermetova 6-4, 2-6, 6-2. Having played her opening two rounds within a tight timeframe, Zhang admitted she had not had time to study upstart Volynets. "I have no idea because 20 hours ago I was [still playing] first round," said Zhang, who also reached the Wimbledon quarterfinals in 2019. "Now I can focus on work for the next round. Nothing better than the feeling now." Meanwhile, women's second seed Ons Jabeur also departed after an error-strewn performance against former Roland Garros finalist Marketa Vondrousova, but there were wins for title contenders Aryna Sabalenka, Caroline Garcia and Belinda Bencic. In the women's double event, China's Wang Xinyu partnered with Japanese player Moyuka Uchijima beat Australian pair Talia Gibson/Olivia Tjandramulia 6-3, 6-3 in the first round, while Zhu Lin/Anna Blinkova were defeated by American duo Caroline Dolehide/Anna Kalinskaya 6-3, 6-3. On the men's court, injury-hampered Novak Djokovic moved into the third round as the path to a 22nd Grand Slam title opened up for him with the premature exit of second seed Casper Ruud. The Serb suffered a mid-match wobble before blazing past his 191st-ranked qualifier Enzo Couacaud 6-1, 6-7 (5-7), 6-2, 6-0. It was his 23rd straight win on the Melbourne Park center court as he stepped up his quest for a record-extending 10th Australian Open crown. Andy Murray, who Djokovic has beaten in four Australian Open finals, remains in the hunt after coming through a late-night epic against Australia's Thanasi Kokkinakis, winning 4-6 6-7(4) 7-6(5) 6-3 7-5 after five hours and 45 minutes – the second longest match in the tournament's history. Former world No 1 Murray, who has defied medical logic to continue his career with a partly metal hip, trailed 5-2 in the third set before digging himself out of a hole to mark his 250th Grand Slam match with his 11th victory from a two-set deficit. The match finished at 4:05 am local time, after which the 35-year-old Murray said: "I think now we should all go to bed." (With input from agencies)