For Cristiano Ronaldo, leaving widely respected English behemoth Manchester United in an acrimonious manner, only to ply his trade in the football backwater of Saudi Arabia is obviously at odds with his status as one of the best strikers in history. But the fiercely competitive five-time Ballon d'Or winner, who had spent two decades being the leading talisman at some of Europe's most prestigious clubs, knows only too well how to change the narrative. "I'm so proud to make this big decision in my life and football," said Ronaldo at his grand unveiling at Al Nassr's packed Mrsool Park stadium after signing a two-and-a-half year contract with the Saudi Arabian club. "I want to give a different vision of the country and the football. In Europe, my work is done. I won everything and played for the most important clubs in Europe. For me now, it's a new challenge." The 37-year-old is reportedly set to rake in an astounding 200 million euro ($214 million) per year, which will make him the highest paid player in the history of the sport. "The world's greatest athlete, officially signed for Al Nassr," read an earlier statement from the club. "This is a signing that will not only inspire our club to achieve even greater success but inspire our league, our nation and future generations, boys and girls to be the best version of themselves." "For me it's not the end of my career coming to Saudi Arabia," Ronaldo declared on Tuesday. "I'm a unique player. I beat all the records there. I want to beat a few records here. This contract is unique but I'm a unique player, so for me it's normal. "I really don't worry about what people say. I am really, really happy to be here. I know the league is very competitive, I saw many games … I'm ready to keep playing football." After terminating his contact with United last month, Ronaldo became a free agent. He had been linked with Chelsea, Atletico Madrid, Bayern Munich and Napoli but none of those European titans made concrete offers. Nonetheless, the Portuguese superstar insisted he had received many offers from all over the world before deciding to move to Al Nassr. "As nobody knows, I can say now I had many opportunities in Europe, many clubs in Brazil, Australia, the U.S., even in Portugal, many clubs tried to sign me," Ronaldo told a press briefing. "But I gave my word to this club for the opportunity to develop, not only the football, but the other parts of this amazing country... "For me, it's a good challenge. I know what I want and I know what I don't want as well. With my knowledge and experience, we can grow many important points." The history-making deal with Al Nassr caps a tumultuous few weeks for Ronaldo, starting with an explosive, unauthorized interview that saw his United career come to a bitter end and a humiliating elimination from the World Cup in Qatar where the Portugal captain lost his place in the starting lineup. However, Ronaldo refused to admit his alarming decline and launched a scathing attack on his detractors, who slammed his decision to move to Saudi Arabia. "Many people speak and give their opinions but they really do not know nothing about football," he said. "In the last 10 or 15 years, you have seen how football has evolved. If you look at the example of the World Cup, the only side that beat the champions were Saudi Arabia; don't forget that." Nine-time Saudi Pro League champions, Al Nassr are coached by the former Roma and Lyon boss Rudi Garcia and currently sit atop the league table. It has been claimed that part of Ronaldo's role at the club will be to help Saudi Arabia's joint bid with Egypt and Greece to host the 2030 World Cup. "I am coming here to win, to play and enjoy my football," said Ronaldo. "I want to be part of the success and culture of the country. I'm here together with the people of Al Nassr, my coach, and the president." Next up for Al Nassr is a home tie against Al Taee on Thursday, but according to multiple media outlets, it's too soon for Ronaldo and his much-anticipated debut is most likely to be in the away clash with Al Shabab on January 14.