The latest episode of Marcus Rashford's breathtaking solo show began just six minutes into Manchester United's first leg showdown with Nottingham Forest at the League Cup semifinal. The 25-year-old striker, who has developed a habit of producing sensational stunners this season, picked the ball up inside his own half, marauded down the flanks at a blistering pace, wriggled between two defenders with incredible ease, and eventually prodded the ball past goalkeeper Wayne Hennessey at his near post. The wonder strike was a perfect combination of individual skill and opportunism, ruthlessly exploiting the lack of concentration in Forest's backline at lightning speed. While further goals from Wout Weghorst and Bruno Fernandes would give United a comfortable 3-0 win and allow them to put one foot in the much-anticipated final at Wembley next month, it was Rashford who once again grabbed the headlines and set United on their way to victory. Forest, who have won the League Cup four times in their history, struggled to contain the high-flying English striker throughout the encounter as his directness and intelligence constantly made their defenders pay. The opener took Rashford's goal tally to a remarkable 10 in as many games since the Qatar World Cup, making him the most prolific striker in Europe's top five leagues at this time. Rashford has now netted 18 goals for United in all competitions this campaign; only Manchester City top-scorer Erling Haaland (31) has scored more for a Premier League club in 2022-23, underlining their status as Europe's hottest wunderkinds at present. According to stats provider Opta, Rashford became the first United player to score at least five goals in a single League Cup season since Carlos Tevez in 2008-09. This was also his 13th career goal in this tournament, snapping a tie with Champions League (12) for his most in a single cup competition. Little wonder Erik ten Hag singled out the in-form attacker in his post-match press conference. "There are more players who are playing really well but I am happy with Marcus [Rashford], his performance and his development," beamed the United manager. "From the start of the season he is growing and keeps doing that. We have to keep his process going and if he is in that mood and spirit, I think he is unstoppable," he added. "It is up to the team to get him in the right positions. In possession we have a plan, but it is up to some players like Rashy, Bruno Fernandes and Christian Eriksen to be creative in the final third and do something no one expects, some crazy stuff." The Dutch tactician punching the air in celebration at full-time whistle spoke volumes about the significance of the triumph. It was a morale-boosting and much-needed response to last weekend's defeat at Arsenal that left them 11 points behind the Premier League leaders. The return to victory in the League Cup means United have extended their winning streak against Forest to eight games, which is the longest such streak in a rivalry that dates back to 1892. This was also the joint-biggest win by an away side in the first leg of a semifinal at this tournament, alongside QPR winning 4-1 at Birmingham in 1966-67 and Luton winning 3-0 at West Ham in 1988-89. Though the Red Devils still have to complete the formality of next Wednesday's second leg at Old Trafford, they are now within touching distance of ending their embarrassing trophy drought stretching back to 2017, when the English giants won the Europa League under Jose Mourinho. It's worth noting that the legendary Alex Ferguson also beat Forest on the way to his first trophy as United manager in the FA Cup in 1990. If Rashford manages to continue his marvelous scoring streak, it's not far-fetched to say that history will repeat itself.