There's not a shred of doubt that Vinicius Jr has a fire in his belly ahead of one of the best derbies in world football. The entertaining Brazilian striker, whose marvelous piece of footwork and showmanship on the pitch endears him to Real Madrid supporters, has always been a convenient lightning rod for his team's cross-city rivals Atletico Madrid. He was a victim of racial abuse from a minority of Atletico fans when these two sides met in September. The relentless hostility towards Vinicius reached a fever pitch on Thursday when an effigy of the 25-year-old was hung from a bridge near his club's training ground along with a banner reading "Madrid hates Real". Real furiously dubbed the act a "violation of fundamental rights and dignity". Atletico stressed that while the rivalry between the two football giants is "the greatest... so is respect". Spanish La Liga later issued a statement, declaring it "will press for an investigation by relevant state security forces and bodies" into the effigy and banner, and will "seek convictions for those responsible and request the most severe sentences". Ironically and inevitably, after all the hullabaloo over the incident, it was Vinicius who drew his dagger in the latest edition of the Madrid derby and crushed Atletico fans' dream to see their team advance to the Copa del Rey semifinals. In the final minute of this gripping clash, the lively attacker wriggled his way into the Atletico box before smartly poking the ball into the bottom corner to quash any hopes of a stunning Atletico comeback and secure Real's spot in the final four. Vinicius also played a vital part in Stefan Savic's foolish red card. The Atletico defender was sent off for two yellow cards in two minutes in the extra time with the game still tied 1-1. The first came during an argument with Vinicius and the second for fouling Eduardo Camavinga. To their credit, Atletico did not let the occasion get to them in the early stage of the encounter and deservedly took the lead through Alvaro Morata after just 19 minutes. Though Real struggled to break through the Atletico defense, a brilliant solo goal from Rodrygo helped them level the score. Madrid talisman Karim Benzema settled the nerves when he fired home from Marco Asensio's pass before Vinicius put the finishing touch on an intense and thrilling derby classic. "We gave everything we had," insisted Atletico coach Diego Simeone afterward. "We have been making it difficult for Real, that makes us proud, the team competed to win." The Real victory means they have stormed into Copa semifinals for the first time since 2019, having been knocked out by Athletic Bilbao in the quarterfinals last season. The Spanish powerhouse have now relentlessly won their last three matches, and seem to have returned to their best, having suffered a dip in form after the Qatar World Cup. Real coach Carlo Ancelotti was particularly pleased with the professionalism shown by his unflustered Brazilian star. "Vinicius, as usual, has focused on the game, and he wanted to play," he told a post-match press conference. "What has happened is very unfortunate, but it is behind us now." True to form, Vinicius wallowed in the glow of derby triumph after having the last laugh. "There is only one Madrid, everyone knows it," he said on social media, adding "Vini LOVES MADRID."