Peru's embattled President Dina Boluarte on Friday urged Congress to bring forward elections slated for April 2024 to December 2023, as protests that have killed dozens raged on against her leadership. Peru has been embroiled in a political crisis with near-daily protests since December 7 when former president Pedro Castillo was arrested after attempting to dissolve Congress and rule by decree. Demanding that Boluarte resign and call fresh elections, Castillo supporters have erected roadblocks on highways, causing shortages of food, fuel and other basic supplies in the South American country. The government said it will soon deploy police and soldiers to clear the roadblocks. Lawmakers had already voted on December 21 in favor of a Boluarte bill to bring forward elections from 2026 to 2024. But in the face of relentless protests, Boluarte on Friday urged Congress to call the vote for December. "Congress voted once and we are waiting for them to vote again," she said at a military airport in Lima, where a plane was being loaded with emergency aid for the southern Apurimac region badly affected by the shortages. Popular Force, the opposition party of Keiko Fujimori who lost the 2021 elections to Castillo, this week proposed holding elections in December. Congress is expected to debate the bill on Friday. While Boluarte urged lawmakers to move ahead with elections, she described the political crisis as a "quagmire." "Protests continue. There are more roadblocks and violence," she added. Protesters are demanding immediate elections, as well as Boluarte's removal, the dissolution of Congress and a new constitution. "Nobody has any interest in clinging to power," insisted Boluarte. "I have no interest in remaining in the presidency. If I am here it is because I fulfilled my constitutional responsibility." As Castillo's vice president, Boluarte automatically replaced him after he was impeached by Congress and arrested. The U.S. State Department said on Friday it remained concerned about the violent demonstrations as it called "for calm dialogue and for all parties to exercise restraint and nonviolence," spokesman Vedant Patel told reporters. On Thursday, the defense and interior ministries announced that police and the military would soon move to clear the roadblocks. (With input from AFP)