Thailand's rising star Kunlavut Vitidsarn stunned top seed Viktor Axelsen to clinch the India Open badminton title with a 22-20, 10-21, 21-12 victory in New Delhi on Sunday. China's Liang Weikeng and Wang Chang won their season's first gold medal as they took the men's doubles title after defeating Malaysia's Aaron Chia/Soh Wooi Yik 14-21, 21-19, 21-18. In the women's singles, South Korea's An Se-young beat world No. 1 Akane Yamaguchi of Japanto avenging her loss at the Malaysia Open final a week ago. Vitidsarn, who stood out as the 21-year-old former junior world champion, got past the Danish ace and world No. 1 for the first time in six attempts. "From my earlier losses against Viktor, I had learnt that if I could engage him in long rallies and take the match to the decider then I have a chance to win," said Vitidsarn, who lost the World Championships final to Axelsen last August. "The plan was adapting as we played along. I played without much pressure, but the main plan was to attack. I gave it whatever I had. I've lost to him last six times. It is the best match I've played." Axelsen, who won the Malaysia Open title, bounced back after a close opening game, but Vitidsarn kept his calm to win his first major Super Series crown since the German Open (Super 300) in 2022. He also won the 2021 SEA Games singles gold. The 29-year-old Axelsen, who pulled out of the Indonesia Masters shortly after the final, urged officials to keep players' health in mind when scheduling back-to-back tournaments in different time zones. In the women's singles, An bounced back from a game down to beat Yamaguchi 15-21, 21-16, 21-12 in a 62-minute battle of the Super 750 event. Yamaguchi, who was the top seed and had beaten An in Kuala Lumpur just over a week ago, conceded she made too many errors. "In the first game I controlled the rallies and so did my opponent but, from the second game, An increased her movement speed," Yamaguchi said after the game. Yuta Watanabe and Arisa Higashino won the mixed doubles title, while Nami Matsuyama and Chiharu Shida won the women's doubles crown. The Super 500 Indonesia Masters takes place in Jakarta from January 24 to 29, which also draws world top players. (With input from AFP)