World leaders, officials and heads of international agencies have been sending New Year's greetings to the Chinese people as China celebrates the Year of the Rabbit, which runs from January 22, 2023, to February 9, 2024, according to the Chinese Zodiac. Managing Director of International Monetary Fund Kristalina Georgiev extended her warmest greetings to everyone who celebrates the Year of the Rabbit, saying the rabbit embodies calm, peace and prosperity and that she hopes the good implications of the rabbit will "translate into the world community together to address our common challenges and put us on the part to prosperity for all. " World Trade Organization Director-General Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala wished China and all Chinese people "a very happy New Year of the Rabbit." Maimunah Mohd Sharif, the executive director of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat), extended her New Year's greetings to Chinese people, saying last year had witnessed UN-Habitat's cooperation with China and that Shanghai hosted the 2022 World Cities Day Global Home Event, which has yielded fruitful results. "In the Year of the Rabbit, I, representing UN-Habitat, extend my warmest greetings to the Chinese people and my friends, wishing the Year of the Rabbit auspiciousness, health and happiness," Sharif said. Aside from heads of international organizations, world leaders and officials also extended their greetings to China and Chinese people for the Year of the Rabbit. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau extended his New Year's greetings to the Chinese people, wishing them good health, happiness, joy and peace in the Year of the Rabbit. Costa Rican President Rodrigo Chaves Robles also sent Chinese New Year greetings and wished the people of China and the world all the best in the new year. Moldovan Prime Minister Natalia Gavrilița wished the Chinese people happiness and health in the Year of the Rabbit. Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabic said she wishes all Chinese people a happy new year and all Chinese around the world can hear blessings from their Serbian friends. She also wishes China to be more prosperous and stronger in the year of 2023. Former Japanese Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda extended his New Year's greetings to the Chinese people while attending a Spring Festival gala held by the local Chinese, saying he hopes China-Japan ties can develop steadily and the two countries can maintain friendly relationship. Read more: World leaders send Chinese New Year greetings The Pakistan Foreign Minister wished the Chinese people happiness in the Year of the Rabbit and expressed his hope that the relationship between China and Pakistan can reach a new height this year. Heads of the international affairs committee and the economic policy committee of the Russian State Duma also sent New Year's greetings to the Chinese people and wished them health, prosperity and happiness. Thailand's ministers of culture and labor each expressed their New Year's greetings to the Chinese people, wishing them health, prosperity, happiness and auspiciousness. Minister of International Relations and Cooperation of South Africa, Naledi Pandor also extended good wishes to the Chinese people in the New Year on behalf of the people of South Africa and its government. Hungarian Minister for Economic Development, Marton Nagy extended his warmest wishes to the Chinese people, saying, "China itself is a symbol of friendship, and the rabbit's gentle nature reminds us of cooperation, which is extremely important to our two peoples.” Mayor of The Hague, Jan van Zanen expressed his love for Chinese culture in his new year greetings, saying the Chinese people and their descents in Netherlands "make our society more diversified." He also said he loves Chinese food and Chinese music. The President of the Arab States Broadcasting Union, Mohammed bin Fahd Al-Harthi said he wishes the Chinese people can have a wonderful and happy new year in which everyone can realize their wishes and ideals. (Cover image: A rabbit lantern is seen in Trafalgar Square on the eve of the Chinese New Year, London, UK, January 21, 2023. /CFP)