China's 17-year-old Shang Juncheng on Wednesday was defeated by 16th seed American Frances Tiafoe in a three-setter, while Zhu Lin renewed her personal best record at a Grand Slam event after upsetting her opponent and eased into the third round of the Australian Open. The game was delayed by rain for six hours, but Zhu posted a 6-2, 6-2 win over the tournament's 32nd seed Jil Teichmann of Switzerland after one hour and 26 minutes, reaching the last 32 in the women's singles event, her best achievement since her debut in 2009. Currently ranked world No. 87, Zhu sprinted to a 4-0 advantage in 21 minutes and sealed a comfortable 6-2 first set victory. With her good form extending into the second set, Zhu came back from one down and reeled off three game wins to secure her leading place. Though Teichmann tried to save the match by drawing the deciding game into a deuce, two forehand unforced errors in the last minutes saw the world No. 33 knocked out by Zhu. Zhu will have a tougher game in her first-ever Grand Slam third round with sixth seed and world No. 6 Maria Sakkari of Greece. The two players had a head-to-head in the 2016 Australian Open qualifying round, where Sakkari beat Zhu 6-3, 6-2. "I didn't think too much about the result when I played. All I thought was just the next point and focus. I really enjoyed the match, I was really focused and also relaxed," Zhu told reporters. "This is not the end. For me, there is still a long way to go," said the 28-year-old. "I think I'm like a bird flying slower than others, but I will eventually reach my destination." Meanwhile, China's 23rd seeded veteran Zhang Shuai, 33, advanced into the second round by beating Patricia Maria Tig of Romania 6-1, 4-6, 6-0 in two hours and 10 minutes. 21-year-old Wang Xinyu was knocked out 6-3, 6-2 by tenth seed Madison Keys of the United States, though Wang will continue her Australian Open journey in the women's doubles. 29th-seeded young sensation Zheng Qinwen, 20, was ousted 6-4, 6-4 by world No. 41 Bernarda Pera of the United States. Meanwhile, no Chinese remain in the men's singles event, as Shang went down 6-4, 6-4, 6-1 against world No. 17 Tiafoe, but the teenager impressed with his forehand strikes. "I think today was a very, very good learning experience for me to play on a very big court and against a top 20 opponent and who's never lost a match this year," Shang told reporters, after his one-hour, 58-minute clash with the American. "He was the better player today. But I enjoyed every moment out there," he said, adding that he hoped to move up a level in the 2023 season. Tiafoe, who produced 20 powerful aces in the game, called Shang a special player who is going to be "a problem for a long time." "He is going to have a career that's going to be special," said the 24-year-old. "And I'm a big fan of his. Super nice guy as well. I hope nothing but the best for him, honestly." (With input from Xinhua)