Marc-Andre ter Stegen saved twice from the spot to help Barcelona beat Real Betis 4-2 on penalties after a 2-2 draw on Thursday, setting up a Clasico Spanish Super Cup final. The Catalans will face their bitter rivals Real Madrid on Sunday after Carlo Ancelotti's side beat Valencia on penalties on January 11. Barcelona needed spot-kicks to see off Betis after an entertaining draw over 120 minutes at Riyadh's King Fahd Stadium. Robert Lewandowski put Barcelona ahead after 40 minutes but Betis playmaker Nabil Fekir leveled with 13 minutes remaining. Ansu Fati smashed in a fine volley to put Barcelona ahead in extra-time but Loren Moron pulled Betis back level with a cunning backheel flick. Ter Stegen denied Juanmi and William Carvalho in the shootout and Pedri converted the decisive spot-kick. Barcelona have not won the Spanish Super Cup since the change to a four-team format, with the first Saudi Arabia edition taking place in 2020. After finishing last season without a single trophy and investing heavily in the summer despite the club's debts, Xavi and his team are desperate for silverware. Elsewhere, Chelsea suffered a shock 2-1 defeat at Fulham during their Premier League clash that saw Blues forward Joao Felix sent off on his debut. Felix was dismissed in the 58th minute at Craven Cottage after catching Tete on the shin. The 23-year-old was playing for Chelsea for the first time just 24 hours after joining on loan from Atletico Madrid for the rest of the season. Felix had impressed on his debut, creating several dangerous chances until his moment of madness led to his dismissal with the score level at 1-1. Under-fire Chelsea coach Graham Potter had hoped Felix's signing could revitalize his struggling side, who are languishing in 10th place in the Premier League. "It's a combination of a lot of things, his training, the quality he has and the team needs a little bit of lift in terms of the ability he has," Potter told BT Sport just before kick-off at Fulham. "He's a confident boy and he just wants to play. He's just got to be himself. He hasn't had that much time with the players, so it's just about expressing himself." Felix joined Atletico from Benfica in 2019 for 126 million euros, making him one of the most expensive players of all time. He has scored 34 goals in 131 appearances for the club, winning La Liga in 2021. Felix also featured in Portugal's run to the World Cup quarterfinals in Qatar last month, scoring in the 3-2 victory against Ghana in the group stage. (With input from AFP)