China's Yang Zhaoxuan and her partner Chan Hao-ching from Chinese Taipei on Monday progressed into the women's doubles quarterfinals of the Australian Open with a straight-set win. They will next face American opponents Jessica Pegula and Coco Gauff on Wednesday. Facing off Ukraine's Anhelina Kalinina and Belgium's Alison Van Uytvanck in John Cain Arena, the 11th-seeded duo clinched four straight games from 1-0 down and took the opening set at 6-3. Both pairs managed to survive their serving games in the following set until Yang and Chan broke their opponents in the 11th game and eventually emerged victorious 7-5 after one hour and 40 minutes. This marked the first time world No. 10 doubles player Yang has reached the quarterfinals of the Australian Open since she started playing the Grand Slam event in 2015, while Chan made a semifinal appearance in the 2020 edition. In the men's singles, fifth seed Andrey Rublev admitted on Monday that he was "lucky" after saving two match points to topple Danish teen Holger Rune in a roller-coaster five sets and book a place in the quarter-finals. In a battle of two former junior world No. 1s, the Russian broke when Rune was serving for the match, then saved match points before winning 6-3, 3-6, 6-3, 4-6, 7-6 (11-9). He will face nine-time champion Novak Djokovic for a place in the semi-finals after the Serbian fourth seed crushed Australia’s Alex de Minaur in straight sets 6-2, 6-1, 6-2. In the women's singles, American third seed Pegula is back in the quarter-finals of the Australian Open for a third straight year and on Tuesday she will try to get over that hurdle for the first time when she faces twice champion Victoria Azarenka. Pegula is the highest seed left in the women's draw after Iga Swiatek and Ons Jabeur were knocked out in first-week upsets. Azarenka meanwhile is back in the quarter-finals in Melbourne for the first time since she became a mother and the 33-year-old is out for revenge after she was knocked out by Pegula in 2021. Earlier, China's Zhang Shuai crashed out of the women's singles with a crisp 6-0, 6-4 loss to Karolina Pliskova of the Czech Republic. Leading 7-0 in their head-to-head series, the 30th-seeded and world No. 31 Pliskova fired six aces and 15 winners, stunning world No. 22 Zhang with the first-set win in 21 minutes. In the second set, Zhang broke Karolina in the sixth game. But Pliskova came back with winning four games in a row. (With input from agencies)