Here are a few stories from around Asia you may have missed this week. A suicide bomber killed at least five people outside the Afghan Foreign Ministry on January 11, local police said. According to a nearby hospital, over 40 people were injured. ISIS claimed responsibility for the attack, the terrorist group's Amaq news agency said on an affiliated Telegram channel. Pakistan said on January 9 that donors have committed to give more than $8 billion to help it recover from last year’s devastating floods in what is seen as a major test for who pays for climate disasters. Officials from some 40 countries as well as private donors and international financial institutions are gathering for a meeting in Geneva as Islamabad seeks help covering around half of a total recovery bill of $16.3 billion. Heavy fog in Delhi on January 9 delayed flights and trains, and a cold wave forced the authorities to defer school reopenings by a week, as visibility fell and cars drove with their hazard lights on. The Indira Gandhi International Airport in the Indian capital asked fliers to contact their airlines for updates on flights. "Due to dense fog, flight operations at Delhi Airport may get affected," it said on Twitter. More than 40 flights were delayed. Indonesia was struck by a magnitude-7.6 earthquake on Tuesday off the Tanimbar islands, prompting panicked residents in the area to flee their homes, although a tsunami warning was lifted after three hours and initial reports indicated limited damage. At least four aftershocks were reported after the powerful quake that was also felt in some parts of northern Australia. The Tanimbar islands are a group of about 30 islands in eastern Indonesia's Maluku province. Japan has culled close to 10 million birds after a record outbreak of avian influenza, as the authorities struggle to tamp down a disease that has already devastated poultry flocks worldwide. The Agriculture Ministry said on Monday that 9.98 million birds had been culled this season, surpassing a previous record in fiscal 2020. The move sent the price of eggs soaring in the country. (Cover: A member of the Taliban security force stands guard on a blocked road after a suicide blast near Afghanistan's Foreign Ministry at Zanbaq Square in Kabul, January 11, 2023. /CFP)