The Golden State Warriors defeated the Atlanta Hawks 143-141 in double overtime (OT) at Chase Center in San Francisco, California on Monday to extend their winning streak to five games. Usually, the Warriors are considered more like a teamwork franchise because of their give-and-go system, while the Hawks seem more like a single-engine team, as Trae Young's playstyle is more ball-dominant. However, Young only took 22 attempts in Monday's game, five more than John Collins' 17 field goals (FGs), which were already the team's third-highest. By contrast, Klay Thompson and Jordan Poole combined to shoot 71 FGs, over half of the Warriors' total attempts (122) on Monday night. Of course, the two had every reason to do so because their team desperately needed scorers without Stephen Curry and Andrew Wiggins. The difference was that Thompson shot 21-for-39 from the field, including draining 10 triples, to score the season-high of 54 points, while Poole missed 21 of his 32 attempts, including 10 from downtown, getting only 28 points. That explained why the home broadcaster and commentator kept suggesting that the Warriors give the ball to Thompson. Nonetheless, it was Kevon Looney who sealed the deal for the Warriors with two straight offensive rebounds and one buzzer-beating putback shot in the second OT. Looney has always been a dominant rebounder, but grabbing 21 in total, including 11 on the offensive glass, was still impressive, especially because his multiple rebounds kept the competition alive for the Warriors. During the post-game interview, Thompson again praised Looney as "Looajuwon," the nickname he gave to his 2.06-meter-tall big man teammate in May for Looney's epic rebounding performance against the Memphis Grizzlies in the playoffs. The nickname refers to Hakeem Olajuwon, one of the greatest centers in the history of the NBA. Of course, the Warriors couldn't have won at home on Monday without key contributions from others. For example, Draymond Green had a double-double of 13 rebounds and 11 assists while constantly appearing in the right spot to help defend. Meanwhile, Anthony Lamb scored 17 points off the bench, joining hands with Patrick Baldwin Jr. and Moses Moody to match their Hawks' counterpart led by Bogdan Bogdanovic. The Hawks continued to miss Clint Capela for the fourth consecutive game because of a strained calf. Though their mini twin tower of Collins and Onyeka Okongwu both had a double-double on Monday night, their protection of the board was as disappointing as the 23 offensive rebounds and 20 second-chance points they allowed the Warriors to get. The biggest problem with the Collins-Capela pair is that the two compete with each other for space in the paint on the offensive end, but at least Capela can fill the paint defensively to set Collins free to cover a bigger area. Like Capela, Okongwu can't shoot outside the paint, and he is even smaller than Collins. Their blocking abilities do not make up for their size. Other games on Monday (away teams come first): Los Angeles Lakers 121-115 Charlotte Hornets The Lakers managed to secure the second win in a row, thanks to LeBron James' incredible performance getting 43 points, 11 rebounds and six assists at the Spectrum Center in Charlotte, North Carolina on Monday. Though the 38-year-old missed all five attempts behind the arc, he went 13-for-15 in the paint and made 11 free throws. The purple and gold lost Russell Westbrook in the second quarter due to a left foot injury, but Austin Reaves filled in his role as the offensive engine off the bench with 15 points and seven assists. The team surpassed the Oklahoma City Thunder to rank 12th in the Western Conference as of Monday, and they are two games behind the play-in tournament zone (10th). Chicago Bulls 134-145 Cleveland Cavaliers There were a series of highlights in the NBA on Monday night, including 40+ points, 50+ points and an almost-triple-double of 32 points. However, Donovan Mitchell's performance outshined them all. Mitchell made 71 points and 11 assists for the Cavaliers to beat the Bulls in overtime at Rocket Mortgage FieldHouse in Cleveland, Ohio. Mitchell is now the highest scorer among all active players in today's NBA, making him the sixth player in NBA history to get 70+ points and the first to have at least 70 points plus 10+ assists. The achievement boosts Mitchell's career and creates a new franchise high for the Cavaliers. Mitchell was drafted by the Denver Nuggets and then traded to the Utah Jazz with the 13th pick in 2017. The last NBA player to get 70 points in one game was Devin Booker, who Phoenix Suns drafted with the 13th pick in 2015. The last player who scored more points than Mitchell in one NBA game was Kobe Bryant, who dropped 81 points, the second-highest in league history, against the Toronto Raptors on January 22, 2006. Bryant was drafted by the Hornets and then traded to the Lakers with the 13th pick in 1996. Perhaps they are all coincidental, but selecting a shooting guard appears to be the right call when you have the No. 13 pick in the NBA Draft. New Orleans Pelicans 111-120 Philadelphia 76ers It may be an exaggeration to say Zion Williamson's exit changed everything at the Wells Fargo Center in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on Monday, but he was in good enough form to shoot 10-for-12 from the floor to get 26 points, six rebounds and seven assists before leaving with a hamstring strain in the third quarter. Williamson's departure eased the defensive load on Joel Embiid, who was then able to invest more energy on offense. He scored 24 of his 42 points in the second half while James Harden added 11 points and three assists in the fourth quarter to help the 76ers claim the second straight win and get revenge for the loss to the Pelicans on the road last week. Phoenix Suns 83-102 New York Knicks Toronto Raptors 114-122 Indiana Pacers San Antonio Spurs 103-139 Brooklyn Nets Dallas Mavericks 111-106 Houston Rockets Denver nuggets 111-124 Minnesota Timberwolves Detroit Pistons 106-135 Portland Trail Blazers Miami Heat 110-100 Los Angeles Clippers