The Golden State Warriors beat the Toronto Raptors 129-117 at the Chase Center in San Francisco, California, on Friday, to secure their second straight win. Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson were the Warriors' offensive spine in Friday's game as they combined to drain 10 triples to score 64 points, 15 rebounds and 12 assists for the home team. Curry took 13 of his 21 field goal (FG) attempts in the paint and made nine of them, showing remarkable aggressiveness. Thompson made three 3-pointers in the fourth quarter to extend the team's lead from chasable four points (96-92) to solid double digits. Compared with the above "regular" performances by the "Splash Brothers," the Warriors were likely glad to see Jonathan Kuminga make key contributions like he did on Friday night. He had 15 points off the bench after going 4-for-6 from downtown. Though such sharp 3-point shooting performance doesn't seem sustainable judging by his career stats, Kuminga deserves credit for shooting resolutely when he was open. Meanwhile, Kuminga made more reasonable calls off the dribble. Instead of looking at nothing but the rim or passing to nowhere out of panic, he was able to slow down, read the game and made better use of his size and athleticism. Though Kuminga still needs to work on the details of his timing and habit of passing, he is on the way to becoming a member of the Warriors' clutch-time squad. Despite Kuminga's surprising work, Donte DiVincenzo was the Warriors' best-performing backup player in Friday's game. Not only did he have a double-double of 12 points and 11 assists, his deflections of the opponents' passing and shooting, as well as timely and tough switching defense kept the Raptors from exploiting their average size advantage. Friday's loss ended the Raptors' two-game winning streak. Their ace Pascal Siakam struggled to shoot 8-for-26 from the field. Their best defender OG Anunoby exited the competition in the second quarter because of a wrist injury and didn't return. The team wouldn't have been able to fight until the final five minutes in the fourth quarter without the solid work of Fred VanVleet and Scottie Barnes, who combined to 52 points, 10 rebounds and 12 assists. The Raptors continued to rank the 12th in the Eastern Conference after suffering the 28th loss of the season. They are still hopeful of going back to the play-in tournament zone to compete for a playoff berth if the team puts their mind to it, but some of their players ceased to be as concentrated as they used to be. The Raptors have been one of the NBA's most aggressive teams on the defensive end since coach Nick Nurse arrived. Their signature was quick and determined trapping of the opponents' ball-handler. Though such strategy often resulted in allowing open 3-pointers on the weak side, it generated massive turnovers by the opponents and likely many easy baskets via fast break for the Raptors. Unfortunately, that's not how Friday's game proceeded. The Warriors only committed 12 turnovers, much fewer than their season average of 16.7 (the second-worst in the league) on this front, while delivering a total of 40 assists. They even outscored the Raptors 29-23 in fast break points. Other games on Friday (away teams come first): Milwaukee Bucks 141-131 Indiana Pacers The Bucks already led by 29 points (85-56) after the first half of the competition at Gainbridge Fieldhouse in Indianapolis, Indiana, on Friday. However, the Pacers shot 30-for-45 in FGs, including 17-for-20 under the hoop, in the second half to launch a fierce rally. They even cut the deficit to single digit (131-124) in the fourth quarter. Giannis Antetokounmpo stood out to keep the Pacers from coming back at home. He scored 26 of his 41 points in the third and fourth quarters. Though he failed to punish the Pacers for implementing "Hack-a-Giannis" (fouling Antetokounmpo on purpose to make him shoot free throws), the "Greek Freak" was unstoppable in dominating the paint. Memphis Grizzlies 100-111 Minnesota Timberwolves The Timberwolves extended the Grizzlies' losing streak to five games after limiting their FG rate to 40.9 percent (38-for-93) at the Target Center in Minneapolis, Minnesota, on Friday. The home team had 12 steals and forced 20 turnovers by the opponents. On the offensive end, Anthony Edwards, Kyle Anderson and D' Angelo Russell combined to make 10 triples and score 67 points for the Timberwolves. Ja Morant had to shoulder an even bigger offensive role in the absence of Desmond Bane and had no Steven Adams to set screen for him. He did everything he could to drop a triple-double of 27 points, 10 rebounds and 11 assists, but received too little support from teammates. Jaren Jackson Jr. missed 12 of his 17 FG attempts to get only 14 points. Orlando Magic 105-110 Miami Heat The Heat had a disappointing first half during which they went 3-for-18 behind the arc and trailed 59-50 at Miami-Dade Arena in Miami, Florida, on Friday night. The good news for them was that their defense remained solid via which they limited the Magic's FG rate to below 40 percent in the second and third quarters. Jimmy Butler again led the key counterstrike in the fourth quarter for the Heat. The seven points and three assists he had were not crazy, but they were not even half of hos offensive contributions. His continuous charging on Wendell Carter Jr. was why the rest of the Heat could go 9-for-15 to get 27 points for the team to come back in this period. Cleveland Cavaliers 100-112 Oklahoma City Thunder Spectators at the Paycom Center in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, watched a contest between two top guards of the young generation, Darius Garland of the Cavaliers and Shai Gilgeous-Alexander of the Thunder, on Friday night. Alexander exploited his complete offensive skillset well to drop 35 points and eight assists; Garland, responded a double-double of 31 points and 13 assists. The game reached a 78-78 draw after the first three quarters. Compared with Garland who had to do carry the Cavaliers' offense nearly by himself in the final period, Alexander had Jalen Williams and Josh Giddey to share his burden. Having got 13 points and two assists, which made over half of Cavaliers' offensive production in the fourth quarter, Garland failed to save his team from losing. Alexander had only four points and three assists during the same period, but Williams and Giddey combined to contributed 13 points for the Thunder to win.