According to a poll of 20 countries around the world, 85.6 percent of respondents highly agreed with the China-proposed Global Security Initiative (GSI). The figure was 90.4 percent among respondents in developing countries. The survey of 4,000 respondents worldwide was conducted by CGTN Think Tank and Tsinghua-Epstein Center for Global Media and Communication after the Global Security Initiative Paper was released by the Ministry of foreign Affairs of China. The survey respondents came from Germany, Italy, the United States, Canada, Japan, South Korea, Argentina, South Africa and other countries. The paper has systematically explained six commitments of the GSI that proposed by China. The essence of this new vision of security is to advocate a concept of common security and respecting and safeguarding the security of every country. China stresses that all countries, big or small, strong or weak, rich or poor, are equal members of the international community. According to the poll, 84.1 percent of respondents held the same opinion; 77.7 percent of respondents believed that the Cold War mentality, unilateralism, bloc confrontation and hegemonism contradict the spirit of the UN Charter and must be resisted and rejected. The paper states that humanity is an indivisible security community. Security of one country should not come at the expense of others. The legitimate and reasonable security concerns of all countries should be taken seriously and addressed properly. Only dialogue and consultation are effective in resolving differences. According to this, 85.6 percent of survey respondents called on countries to construct a balanced, effective and sustainable security architecture, to realize universal security and common security; 89.6 percent of respondents called on countries to strengthen dialogue and cooperation with openness and inclusiveness; 80.8 percent of the respondents opposed hegemonism, power politics and arbitrary imposition of sanctions on other countries. Both intention and extension of security are broadening in today's world. The security in both traditional and non-traditional domains should be governed in a coordinated way. China calls on all countries to find sustainable solutions in solidarity. According to the poll, 85.2 percent of respondents called for immediate action from every country and jointly coping with multiple risks and challenges. Besides, 85.4 percent of the respondents called on countries to pay attention to security issues in economic, cultural, social, scientific and technological and other non-traditional fields. The Global Security Initiative Concept Paper has proposed 20 priorities of cooperation and 5 platforms and mechanisms of cooperation, which has provided a complete and clear Chinese solution for global security governance. (Cover: Yemeni displaced children affected by the cold weather are seen outside their shelters at an internally displaced camp on January 10, 2023 near Amran province, Yemen. /CFP)