China firmly supports Pakistan in maintaining security and stands ready to strengthen cooperation with Mongolia, a senior Chinese diplomat said on Friday. Wang Yi, member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and director of the Office of the Foreign Affairs Commission, made the remarks when he met with Pakistani Foreign Minister Bilawal Bhutto Zardari and Mongolian Foreign Minister Batmunkh Battsetseg respectively on the sidelines of the 59th Munich Security Conference, which opened on Friday. All-weather strategic cooperative partners with rock-solid ties When meeting with Bilawal, Wang said that China firmly supports Pakistan in maintaining security and stability as well as achieving development and revitalization, and is willing to provide assistance to the best of its ability to help Pakistan overcome temporary difficulties. Wang said China and Pakistan are all-weather strategic cooperative partners and China-Pakistan friendship is rock solid. China is ready to work with Pakistan to implement the strategic consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries and build an even closer community of shared future in the new era, he said. For his part, Bilawal expressed satisfaction over the development of Pakistan-China relations. He stressed that China is Pakistan's all-weather friend and an important pillar of Pakistan's foreign policy is to strengthen relations with China and promote the construction of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor. Pakistan will resolutely fight terrorism and spare no effort to protect the safety of Chinese enterprises and citizens in Pakistan, he said. The two sides also exchanged views on strengthening mutual support under the current international situation. Wang pointed out that the unintended entry of a Chinese civilian unmanned airship into U.S. airspace was due to force majeure, while the U.S. side ignored the basic facts, abused force, overreacted and hyped the situation. Closer China-Mongolia cooperation When meeting with Battsetseg, Wang said China and Mongolia, as neighbors, should strengthen exchanges and cooperation. He also called for closer China-Mongolia coordination and cooperation on international and regional affairs. For her part, Battsetseg said that she looked forward to maintaining the momentum of high-level bilateral exchanges this year and expanding mutually beneficial cooperation with China. Wang arrived in Munich on Friday after his visits to France and Italy earlier this week and is expected to deliver a speech at the China session of this year's Munich Security Conference. He will continue his visits to Hungary and Russia after the stop in Germany. (With input from Xinhua)