Editor's note: Hamzah Rifaat Hussain, a former visiting fellow at the Stimson Center in Washington and former assistant researcher at the Islamabad Policy Research Institute, is a TV anchor at Indus News in Pakistan. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily those of CGTN. On February 14, Chinese President Xi Jinping and Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi signed off on 20 cooperation agreements in diverse fields during the latter's visit to China. The agreements, which aid the existing 25-year comprehensive cooperation pact between the two countries, is testament to how both Beijing and Tehran are setting the stage for a prosperous and peaceful future. President Raisi's visit, the first by an Iranian president in 20 years, has resulted in both sides expressing a joint resolve of pursuing unconditional, apolitical and visionary cooperation for bilateral, regional and global prosperity. Flanked by a cohort of ministers, both presidents signed 20 agreements which covered information technology, international trade, the environment, and so on. Economic commitments also include the development of rail transportation, worth approximately $12 billion, on projects such as the electrification of the Tehran-Mashhad high speed train and investments in Imam Khomeini Airport City. Additionally, Iran will establish a commercial office in China which will facilitate economic exchanges with Chinese businessmen. Investments in the Iranian automotive industry and expanding the scope of financing Iran's flailing agricultural sector also come under the axes of bilateral memorandums of understanding, which reveal a development-oriented approach adopted by Iran and China for the betterment of their respective populations. Then comes the subject of supporting the interests of the developing world and improving regionalism. President Xi stated clearly that maintaining the stability of the Middle East is vital to the well-being of the people of the region and safeguarding a stable energy supply. Talks also centered on strengthening cooperation and communication with Iran in platforms such as the United Nations and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization which also serves the interests of the developing world, promoting collectivism in the international community instead of divisions. The agreements reached also demonstrate how both sides are fixated on promoting goodwill in Asia in the absence of acrimony and confrontation. In fact, the visit to China is part of President Raisi's "Look to the East" policy which seeks to build relationships that are based on trust and goodwill instead of Western domination of Asian affairs, which has resulted in divisions and discord. Iran's support of the Belt and Road Initiative, the Global Security Initiative and the Global Development Initiative is a welcoming sign for Asian prosperity with stronger linkages, greater trade and more avenues open for innovation. As a result, this visit by President Raisi bodes well for Asian stability. China and Iran have also adopted a principled stance on global security. Both presidents affirmed that they stood against foreign interference in the domestic affairs of any sovereign state while reiterating that mutual efforts will be pursued to safeguard the sovereignty of each other. President Xi Jinping stated that "China supports Iran in safeguarding national sovereignty" and "resisting unilateralism and bullying." It is clear that unilateral actions are counterproductive for world stability and emphasis must be placed on enhancing economic ties and building on existing mechanisms for cooperation instead. Both President Raisi and President Xi spoke of restoring the Iran nuclear agreement where China, as a P5+1 member state, vowed to continue participating in constructive talks to resume negotiations towards implementing the deal. This shows a joint commitment towards upholding the nonproliferation ideal and demonstrates a joint desire for strategic stability and global peace. It is noteworthy that the signing of 20 cooperation agreements stands in stark contrast to Iran being subject to economic coercion. Talks for peace come amid Iran remaining under sanctions with the U.S. State and Treasury Departments announcing punitive measures against Tehran's petroleum industry in February that targeted nine entities. With U.S. sanctions leading Iran to its worst economic crisis in over 40 years, China's expression of solidarity with Iran comes at an opportune time. The 20 cooperation agreements signed and the joint resolve to uphold equity, justice and a non-discriminatory approach in international affairs have enabled both countries to set the stage for a prosperous and stable future. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)