UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Tuesday said climate crisis is the root cause of rising seas, and urged the international community to take more concerted action to reduce emissions and ensure climate justice. "Sea-level rise is not only a threat in itself. It is a threat-multiplier," Guterres told a Security Council debate on "Sea-level Rise: Implications for International Peace and Security." Rising seas threaten lives, and jeopardize access to water, food and healthcare. Saltwater intrusion can decimate jobs and entire economies in key industries like agriculture, fishery and tourism, he said. Citing data released by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), Guterres said that global average sea levels have risen faster since 1900 than over any preceding century in the last 3,000 years. A Chinese envoy on Tuesday also called on the international community to take all necessary actions to rigorously slow down global warming and contain the trend of rapid sea-level rise. Noting that climate change is the root cause of sea-level rise, Zhang Jun, China's permanent representative to the United Nations, urged the international community to adopt a greater sense of urgency without delay, seize the opportunity to take all necessary actions, and prevent climate change from causing irreversible catastrophes to humanity. "To achieve the temperature cap set out in the Paris Agreement, developed countries must take the lead in further reducing emissions," Zhang told a Security Council debate on "Sea-level Rise: Implications for International Peace and Security." However, he said that since last year, there has been a backtrack in the energy policy of some developed countries and an increase rather than decrease in their fossil fuel consumption and carbon emissions, which makes the already elusive global emissions reduction prospect even more precarious. Most developed countries set forth their carbon peaking and carbon neutrality targets and programs relatively early. They should set an example by taking concrete actions for their implementation, Zhang said. He added that developed countries are also obliged and responsible for providing climate change financing and assistance to developing countries. As early as 2009, developed countries pledged 100 billion U.S. dollars annually to developing countries, which has yet to be truly delivered up to date. Worse still, certain country, while passively responding to the funding needs of developing countries, invests hundreds of billions of dollars in hefty subsidies to its domestic manufacturing industry through the so-called Inflation Reduction Act, purportedly to promote its energy transition, Zhang said. China, as a country with a long coastline, also pays great attention to the risks from sea-level rise. In the face of climate change, China has always been steadfastly action-oriented with no efforts spared once a commitment is made, and always advocates and engages in South-South cooperation on climate change, said the envoy. "China will continue to work with all parties to actively participate in global climate governance and tackle the climate change challenge," Zhang said. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at nature@cgtn.com.)