In the face of unexpected situations, what China and the U.S. need to do is to stay focused, communicate in a timely manner, avoid misjudgment and manage differences, said Wang Yi, director of the Office of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, on Friday.Wang, also a member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, made the remarks during phone talks with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken at the latter's request. The two sides communicated on how to handle the unexpected situation in a "cool-headed and professional manner", according to China's foreign ministry. "As a responsible country, China strictly abides by international law. We do not accept any groundless speculation or hyping," Wang said. The talks came after previous media reports said that a Chinese unmanned airship has been recently spotted in the U.S. airspace. China's foreign ministry on Saturday reiterated that the airship used for meteorological research unintentionally entered into U.S. airspace due to force majeure, saying some politicians and media in the U.S. are smearing China with the issue. "China resolutely opposed that some politicians and media in the U.S. are taking advantage of the issue to attack and discredit China," said a Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson in a statement. "Maintaining contact and communication at all levels is an important consensus reached by two heads of state at their Bali summit," said the statement. The statement said that one of the duties of the diplomatic teams of the two countries is to properly manage bilateral relations, especially to calmly and prudently handle some unexpected situations. U.S. media reported that Blinken had postponed his upcoming trip to China following the flying of a "suspected Chinese spy balloon" over the United States. "As a matter of fact, neither China nor the U.S. has announced any visit. The announcement of relevant information by the U.S. is its own affair and we respect it," said the spokesperson. (Cover: File photo of Wang Yi. /Chinese Foreign Ministry)