The ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine has had a significant impact on the global economy. With tensions continuing to rise between the two nations, the effects of this conflict have been felt in various industries across the world. One of the most significant impacts of the conflict has been on the energy sector. Ukraine is an important transit route for Russian natural gas exports to Europe, and the conflict has disrupted these supplies. This disruption has led to an increase in the price of natural gas in Europe, which has affected both businesses and consumers. The European Union (EU) has been particularly affected by the disruption in natural gas supplies. The EU relies heavily on Russian gas, with around half of its natural gas supply coming from the country. As a result of the conflict, the EU has been forced to seek alternative sources of energy, such as liquefied natural gas (LNG) from the United States and Norway. The increase in demand for LNG has driven up prices, which has had a significant impact on the cost of electricity in Europe. This has had knock-on effects on businesses that rely on affordable energy, such as manufacturers, and has also hit consumers who are now paying higher energy bills. The conflict has also had an impact on the global oil market. Russia is one of the world's largest oil producers, and any disruption to its oil exports can have a significant impact on the global oil market. In the weeks following Russia's special military operation in Ukraine, global oil prices soared to over $120 per barrel amid concerns of a shortfall. But they have fallen largely due to weakened demand as a result of slowdown of global economy. Another reason for this is that the global oil market is currently oversupplied, with many countries producing more than is needed. Additionally, many oil producers are not as reliant on Russia for imports as they are for natural gas. However, if the conflict were to escalate and lead to disruptions in oil exports from Russia, the impact on the global economy could be severe. The conflict has also had a significant impact on the financial markets. The sanctions imposed on Russia by the West have led to a decline in the value of the Russian ruble and the Russian stock market. This has had a knock-on effect on other emerging market economies, which have also seen their currencies decline. In addition, the conflict has led to increased geopolitical risk, which has affected investor confidence. Many businesses are now hesitant to invest in Russia or Ukraine, which has led to a decline in foreign direct investment (FDI) in the region. The decline in FDI has had a significant impact on the Ukrainian economy, which was already struggling before the conflict began. The conflict has led to a decline in exports, a decline in tourism, and a decline in foreign investment, all of which have had a negative impact on the country's economy. The conflict has also had a significant impact on the European banking sector. Many European banks have significant exposure to Russia and Ukraine, and the conflict has increased the risk of default on loans to businesses in these countries. This has led to a decline in the value of European bank stocks and has raised concerns about the stability of the European banking system. The impact of the conflict has not been limited to Europe, however. The United States has also been affected by the conflict, particularly through the impact on the energy sector. The increase in demand for LNG in Europe has led to a decline in LNG exports from the United States to other regions, such as Asia. This has had a significant impact on the United States' energy industry, which had been investing heavily in LNG exports to other regions. The decline in demand for U.S. LNG has led to a decline in investment in the industry and has raised concerns about the viability of LNG exports as a source of economic growth for the United States. The impact of the conflict on the global economy has been significant, and it is unlikely to dissipate anytime soon. (Cover image designer: Gao Hongmei)