When relegation-threatened and managerless Leeds United established a shock two-goal lead against the title-chasing and formidable Manchester United at a boisterous Old Trafford on Wednesday night, the Whites supporters started goading their bitter rivals with unsavory chants and wild celebrations in the stands. Who could point fingers at them? Their struggling team, who just sacked manager Jesse Marsch after less than a year at the helm ahead of this Premier League showdown, have endured more than three months without a league win. And what's more, their side had been beaten by United by a scoreline of 11-3 in their previous two clashes at this stadium. However, the much-needed euphoria proved short-lived. While a smart finish from Wilfried Gnonto inside 55 seconds and an own goal from Raphael Varane right after the second half sent Leeds into a frenzy, a marvelous Marcus Rashford header and a wonder strike from Jadon Sancho, who came off the bench to make only a second appearance since October, brought them back down to earth. At a time when Casemiro's intelligence and Christian Eriksen's inventiveness are sorely missed, Rashford stepped up to the plate for the Red Devils. The unstoppable English striker has cumulatively scored 20 goals in all competitions and is the first United player to net in six straight Premier League home games since 2012. Though the thrilling fightback means Erik ten Hag's team didn't suffer their first home defeat in the league since August, it still represented a huge setback in their bid to keep pace with Premier League leaders Arsenal and Manchester City. After the 2-2 draw, United remain two points behind second-placed City, having played a game more. "You can say we won a point because when you are in a derby and come back from 2-0 down, it is good," observed Ten Hag during the post-match press conference. "But on the other hand, when you start a derby like we did, it's unacceptable. You have to be ready to fight, and we weren't ready for the battle." When asked about the equalizer from Sacho, who was limited to a place on the bench for most of the season after suffering physical and mental problems, Ten Hag said, "Jadon is all the way back ... We know he's a magnificent player. I think consistently he can have a big impact. But he has to work hard. It will motivate him to get more." In sharp contrast, Leeds caretaker manager Michael Skubala has dialed up the celebratory mood as the result moves them a point clear of the relegation zone. His fearless side could have conjured up a win if Brenden Aaronson's free kick went in instead of hitting the post. "I think it instills belief in the players that they are good enough at this level," said the former England futsal coach, who could remain in charge for their next outing on Sunday if Leeds fail to recruit a new permanent manager. "We know that, and we just need to go after every game between now and the end of the season." Later in the day, Spanish giants Real Madrid stormed into the Club World Cup final after swatting aside Egypt's Al Ahly 4-1 in Morocco. Despite missing several key starters, the European champions recovered from a slow start as goals from Vinicius, Federico Valverde, Rodrygo and Sergio Arribas secured the chance to win their fifth Club World Cup crown. Madrid coach Carlo Ancelotti singled out Vinicius for praise after the triumph. "He likes to play football; he scored a good goal, and he was the Vinicius that we have seen in many games," beamed Ancelotti. "He's a great player, and he showed it again." The Italian tactician also added that his top goal-scorer Karim Benzema and key defender Eder Militao might be fit to play against Saudi Arabia's Al Hilal, who upset South American champions Flamengo 3-2 in the first semifinal. "They haven't completely recovered, Karim is doing quite well, and there are more doubts about Militao," said Ancelotti. "They will train on Friday, and then we will see."