China achieved hard-won new results in its development in the past year with its economy operating within an appropriate range despite strong disruptions to economic operations from multiple unexpected factors, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang said on Monday. Li made the remarks when he presided over a meeting to hear opinions from people from all walks of life and grassroots representatives on the draft government work report. Li said that multiple unexpected factors, such as the COVID-19 epidemic, have impacted economic operations, but China has made resolute responses, implemented set policies ahead of time and issued a package of policies and measures to stabilize the economy. More than 12 million urban jobs were added and prices rose by only 2 percent in the past year, with the economic performance kept within a proper range, he said, stressing all these achievements did not come easily. Li noted that over the past five years, China's economy has achieved a medium-high annual growth rate of 5.2 percent, and by employing new methods of macro regulation with strong and effective policies and not issuing excessive currency, it has ensured the stability of prices. China has adopted new approaches in implementing policies to directly suit the needs of market entities. It has also advanced reform and opening up, intensified reforms to streamline administration and delegate power, improved government services and taken forward the nationwide initiative of spurring entrepreneurship and innovation to unleash market vitality and people's creativity, said Li. The country has responded to the people's needs and aimed at solving the main issues of people's livelihoods, he added. However, Li said China is also very clear about the challenges it faces to keep the economy stable. Li stressed the need to implement the decisions of the Central Economic Work Conference and a package of policies and measures to stabilize the economy, so as to continue expanding the momentum of economic rebound.