Editor's note: Anthony Moretti is an associate professor at the Department of Communication and Organizational Leadership at Robert Morris University. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily those of CGTN. There's an old adage in American politics: The cover up is worse than the crime. Senior executives at Norfolk Southern, a leading railroad transport company, as well as U.S. President Joe Biden's administration would be wise to heed such words. Local residents of the small Ohio town of East Palestine, while the surrounding communities are demanding answers following a train derailment two weeks ago that had spilled toxic chemicals into the water and air. Thick black smoke that cascaded into the sky have been seared into people's memories. There have already been multiple lawsuits filed against Norfolk Southern, with one suit claims that more than one million pounds of vinyl chloride were released into the air. According to the National Cancer Institute, vinyl chloride is used to make a variety of plastic products. It "is associated with an increased risk of a rare form of liver cancer (hepatic angiosarcoma), as well as primary liver cancer (hepatocellular carcinoma), brain and lung cancers, lymphoma, and leukemia." Meanwhile earlier this week, Ohio Governor Mike DeWine was asked whether he would feel safe living in East Palestine. "I would be alert and concerned. But I think I would be back at my house," he responded. Residents have complained about awful odors and a burning sensation in their eyes. Their animals are getting sick and thousands of fish are dying. They wonder why they have repeatedly heard that their drinking water is safe, even though state officials are urging them to buy bottled water. Tragically, it had taken about two weeks before any official from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) offered federal government assistance to them. Why did it take this long for area residents to hear an official statement from Washington? As the Washington Post wrote, "Elected leaders in both parties have said the White House should have acted more swiftly to the rail disaster." This absence of decisive action remains all too common with this White House, and many Americans wonder if Biden even has any cognitive awareness over this particular crisis. If the White House responds soon, then Norfolk Southern can face the brunt of the blame from the public at large. Meanwhile, Norfolk Southern's response has demonstrated why millions of Americans distrust big corporations. Norfolk Southern senior executives won't disclose how much vinyl chloride was released into the air. They are hiding behind press releases and social media postings, which confuse more than clarify. In one posting on Twitter, the public is shown a photo of a letter sent by Norfolk Southern CEO Alan Shaw addressed to East Palestine residents. He wrote, "I know you have questions about whether Norfolk Southern will be here to help make things right...We are here and will stay here for as long as it takes." Nonetheless on the evening of February 15, the public gathered for a hearing to speak to the company's executives to ask them what they knew about the chemicals released and looming health risks stemming from the spill. Instead nobody from Norfolk Southern arrived for the public hearing, despite their prior promise. The USA Today newspaper said their decision had escalated "tensions in the already packed and loud school gym." How would "we are here and we still stay here for as long as it takes" square with backing out of a meeting with frightened members of the local community? Likewise, can anyone believe that Washington will "absolutely hold Norfolk Southern accountable" as well? No one from East Palestine is responsible for what happened in their community, but they are paying the heavy price for it. The only conclusions that can be drawn are that Norfolk Southern senior executives could stay silent and many officials in Washington are ignoring the plight of the good people of East Palestine . That's not leadership but cowardice. Accordingly, a corollary to the cover up is worse than the crime is "refusing to lead in times of crisis is worse than the crime." Unfortunately, that's become the Biden way. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)