China is speeding up the green transition of its public transport sector. An official document released early February encourages cities to convert 80 percent of their newly-added vehicles in the public sector and public services to electric for the period from 2023 to 2025. Though participation is voluntary, experts project that such a transition in the public transport sector would bring a systematic change, drive the construction of relevant infrastructure, and more importantly, further pave the way for China to realize its carbon peak and carbon neutrality goals in time. "This is indeed a very important move because we are talking about a system change in the entire public transport sector," said Becky P.Y. Loo, professor from the Department of Geography at Hong Kong University who specializes in sustainable transport, future cities, and smart technologies. Loo said in an email replied to CGTN that this trial run from eight Chinese government departments "will pave the way for a fundamental shift to a green transport system once the electricity is clean" as some electricity generation is currently still relying on coal and non-renewables. "The electrification of vehicles is the implementation of China’s commitment to developing new energy as well as its sustainable development strategy," said Pan Rong, chief data governance at the British Standard Institution (BSI) APAC, said in an interview with CGTN. Challenges bring opportunities In order to have a green transition across China, there are many types of challenges. "From the industry's viewpoint, the biggest challenges could be vehicle batteries and charging infrastructures," Pan said. To tackle that, the document said that China will plan and build an intelligent and efficient charging and battery swap infrastructure system to meet increasing demand. It also set the target of adding the same amount of public charging piles as the number of electric vehicles (EVs) newly added to the public sector. In addition, leading battery manufacturers and technology companies such as Contemporary Amperex Technology (CATL) and Suwoda have been expanding production to meet market demand, while increasing cooperation with car companies in the public sector since 2021. According to a supplement to the document, the number of increased EVs in pilot cities are stratified in three tiers among which more developed cities shall meet the target of 100,000, while the second tier ones should try to hit 6,000 and those on the border areas should strive to hit 2,000 incremental ones. That together is an estimation of more than 2 million newly added EVs in the next two years, a market size of 600 billion RMB ($88 billion). "It will bring incremental gains to car makers, including the batteries makers and the new energy vehicle enterprises," Pan said. As for the charging industry, its total market size is expected to expand to over 60.7 billion RMB ($8.85 billion) by 2025. There are 5.2 million charging infrastructure facilities in China, which nearly doubled in 2022 compared to the year before, according to the press release from the National Energy Administration on February 14. And with the promotion of innovation in this industry, such as the adoption of solar-powered charging and inspection stations and battery swapping stops, it may be easier to meet the energy replenishment demand for EVs in the public sector. Providing efficient and affordable charging infrastructure is also part of the many tasks, according to Loo. Other challenges relate to making electricity cleaner and transforming the vehicle fleet, she added. Safety concern Once the infrastructure is in place, their safe operation is the next big concern for the EV industry, particularly for the users within the connected vehicle network. A recent report from automotive security firm Upstream warns that EV chargers are now the leading attack vector in the sector. Risks include the disruption of operations, theft of customer information, or taking over the charging stations to attack multiple vehicles. The report suggests that security standards for EV charging stations are needed to protect infrastructure and the consumers. While having a shared network of vehicle can greatly enhance operation efficiency, it is critical to construct standards at the beginning, Pan said. "And it is important to ensure the standardization of this information while protecting their privacy when sharing them with the system," she added. The National Energy Administration has set up a committee dedicated to EV charging facilities standards, establishing a charging infrastructure standard system that has independent intellectual property rights. An official from the organization said at the press conference that it has released 31 national standards and 26 industry standards, making China the fourth country to have DC charging standards after Europe, the United States and Japan.