Erik ten Hag just saw his high-flying Manchester United miss out on the chance to grind out a cathartic victory after being pegged back 2-2 by a Barcelona equalizer, but he didn't care a jot. "I can imagine everyone would want to see this game!" beamed the Dutch tactician. The two fallen powerhouses, who have previously met in two Champions League finals, found themselves paired in Europe's secondary competition was evidently absurd. But this eagerly awaited Europa League play-off tie at the Camp Nou, where 90,255 fans smashed the tournament's attendance record, unquestionably lived up to its billing. It was a stupendous spectacle which ebbed and flowed at a breakneck pace. There were 35 attempts at goal, as both teams pressed high, forcing defensive errors and creating a series of chances. Barcelona, who are eight points clear at the top of Spanish La Liga, stole the opener when a stealth Marcos Alonso headed in at the back post from Raphinha's corner, but United drew level immediately when Marcus Rashford lashed home his 13th goal in 15 games since the World Cup in a finish at the near post. There's no doubt this was a blockbuster game that was all about Rashford, who has been singled out by the Spanish media outlets as the most dangerous United weapon. Every time the English striker darted across the pitch with the ball, the whole Camp Nou fell silent and feared the worst. Rashford did play an instrumental role in United's second goal, dribbling past Raphinha before crossing into the centre where goalmouth chaos left a hapless Jules Kounde unable to do anything other than deflect the ball into his own net. But regrettably, against the resilient Barca who haven't lost at Camp Nou all season, United were unable to tighten up defense as they let a Raphinha cross fly all the way into the net to ensure the spoils are shared. "I think it was a great game. Two attacking teams. I think it was like a Champions League game, even more than that, so I really enjoyed it," said Ten Hag during the post-match press conference.  "We dictated the game, we outplayed them and created so many chances. We should have scored four goals... In the end it finished 2-2, and we have to finish it in Old Trafford. We have a lot of character and determination in this team." Ten Hag later suggested that the referee Maurizio Mariani failed to spot a clear red card offence committed by Kounde, who brought down Rashford as he looked to run through on goal. "If I make a point that has a big influence on this game and at this ground, at 2-1, it was a clear foul on Marcus Rashford," said the United manager. "We can discuss if it's inside the box or outside the box, but definitely, it's a red card." The stance was echoed by Rashford, who told reporters, "I haven't watched it back, but I don't understand why the linesman or the referee thinks I am going down there? I have touched it past him, my foot is in front of the ball and he hits my leg. It's clear contact and was 100 percent a foul." United suffered a horrifying 3-0 defeat on their last visit to the Camp Nou under their former coach Ole Gunnar Solskjaer in 2019, but that seems like a long time ago now. They matched Barcelona and even outclassed them for long periods this time around. For all the two giants' current malaise, it was a showdown that had the stature of a Champions League knockout fixture. The second leg at Old Trafford could possibly deliver more entertaining ups and downs. Just bring it on.