International cultural exchanges are regaining vitality after the easing of COVID-19 measures, with overseas productions coming to China and Chinese artists going abroad. Jointly produced by the Shanghai Opera House and Grand Theater, "La Bohème," one of the world's most frequently performed operas, has come to east China's Shanghai. Co-directed by Yang Jingze from China and Italy's Marco Carniti, it fuses Giacomo Puccini's work with some fresh ideas from China. This version of the opera is set in the future, underpinned by the current climate change issues. Carniti was one of the first foreign artists to come to China after the relaxation of border entry restrictions in January. This is his second time working with the Shanghai Opera House. "I really like to work with these Chinese artists. The combination between me and the Chinese artists is a magic moment, for them and for me. The experience that I have, now in this moment, will be very important for my life for the future," Carniti said. Even amid the pandemic, Carniti had been remotely collaborating with the Shanghai Opera House for over a year. The borders were shut but the exchange continued. Xu Zhong, the president of Shanghai Opera House, said, "The premiere of 'La Bohème' opens the curtain for the Shanghai Opera House this season, followed by the masterpiece 'Tosca', and then we will also have two masterpiece plays by Wagner this year." A number of performances will be staged in Shanghai this year, including the Chinese version of the hit musical "The Phantom of the Opera." Cultural communication is being strengthened as more international plays hit Chinese theaters and more Chinese actors travel to perform overseas. In a first-ever development, a stand-up comedy show from China is travelling to North America. Xiaoguo Standup City Roaming-2023 World Tour has brought Chinese comedians to audiences overseas. Liang Haiyuan, a stand-up comedian from Xiaoguo Comedy, said, "One feeling is the reunion. We had planned this for so long and finally made it. While it's our first time to meet audiences here, we also feel love at first sight. During our first overseas performance in Seattle, we did the stand-up comedy show, and the audience was so happy to laugh, applaud and cheer. We got more and more feedback. We are really happy and look forward to it." Liang said the experience overseas has broadened his view and inspired him to generate more ideas. He hopes to perform in English next time, reaching and influencing more people in every corner of the world.