Though the NBA trade deadline closed on February 8, teams have continued to sign players who reached buyouts with their previous teams. Terrence Ross Terrence Ross will join the Phoenix Suns after reaching a buyout with the Orlando Magic, according to ESPN. The 32-year-old veteran has averaged 1.5 triples at a 3-point rate of 38.1 percent for the Magic this season. He is also a reliable finisher in fast break thanks to his athleticism that made him the NBA All-Star Slam Dunk Contest champion in 2013. The Dallas Mavericks were pursuing Ross too but the player preferred to join hands with Kevin Durant, Devin Booker and Chris Paul in the Suns. Reggie Jackson Reggie Jackson plans to join the Denver Nuggets as a free agent after reaching a buyout with the Charlotte Hornets, according to ESPN. Jackson, 32, was traded by the Los Angeles Clippers to the Hornets for Mason Plumlee before the deadline. He has scored 10.9 points and 3.5 assists per game for the Clippers this season. The Nuggets sent Bones Hyland away (to the Clippers) in a four-team trade. They need someone like Jackson to call the shots in the bench unit. Danny Green Danny Green has agreed to a $2-million contract with the Cleveland Cavaliers after reaching a buyout with the Houston Rockets, according to ESPN. Green, 35, made only three appearances for the Memphis Grizzlies this season after recovering from the torn anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) and lateral cruciate ligament (LCL) in his left knee. He was traded by the Grizzlies to the Rockets in a three-team deal that also involved the Clippers. The Cavaliers have grown into a series throne contender in the Eastern Conference after adding Donovan Mitchell to their lineup. Green, as a three-time NBA champion, can be helpful to the team with his experience. There are other players either negotiating buyouts with their teams or weighing their options. They may not be All-Star caliber, but many of them can still be key pieces for teams that want to make a deep run in the playoffs. For example, Patrick Beverley already cleared a waiver with the Magic. His defensive energy is attractive to a lot of teams; Will Barton is working on a buyout with the Washington Wizards and he can contribute as a bench scorer. The biggest name among them is Russell Westbrook, who was traded by the Los Angeles Lakers to the Utah Jazz. If he doesn't want to stay in the Jazz, with his abilities, Westbrook can be of good help to some serious championship contenders.