Mohamed Salah said Liverpool's 2-0 win over Everton in the Merseyside derby on Monday is just the start of a revival for the Reds. Salah scored for the first time in the Premier League since Boxing Day as Jurgen Klopp's men snapped a four-game winless streak. Cody Gakpo then grabbed his first goal for the club in the second half. A positive night for Liverpool was rounded off by the return of Diogo Jota and Roberto Firmino from injury, while Virgil van Dijk made the bench after six weeks on the sidelines. "It's a huge win for us," said Salah. "We had a perfect week to train and the players were so excited and we couldn't wait for the game to turn everything around. Hopefully it was a start." Liverpool are still nine points off the top four in ninth. But that gap to fourth-placed Newcastle could be cut to six points when they travel to St. James' Park next weekend. That clash comes just days before Real Madrid's trip to Anfield in the Champions League last 16 and Klopp will be hoping he has finally stumbled upon a solution to some of his side's woes in time for another tilt at the European Cup. In Italy, Inter Milan allowed Napoli to pull 15 points clear at the top of Serie A after being held to a goalless draw at struggling Sampdoria. Simone Inzaghi's side already had little hope of recapturing the league title conceded to local rivals AC Milan last season, and the yawning gap between them and Napoli widened following an underwhelming display in Genoa. Napoli cruised past Cremonese 3-0 on Sunday and look with each passing week more likely to claim a first league crown since 1990. Second-placed Inter are three points ahead of Atalanta, Roma and Milan in the race for next season's Champions League. Lazio are five points back in sixth after being beaten by Atalanta in Rome on Saturday night. When asked if the title was beyond his team, Inzaghi said, "I keep saying we can only look at ourselves. We're not satisfied with the result, in fact we're very disappointed as we should be." The draw is a good result for troubled Sampdoria, but a point does little for the survival hopes of a team firmly ensconced in the relegation zone. Dejan Stankovic's side have collected 11 points from their 22 matches and are eight behind Spezia, who sit just outside the drop zone and drew at Empoli on Saturday.