Team Giannis beat Team LeBron 184-175 in the NBA All-Star Game at Vivint Arena in Salt Lake City, Utah, on Sunday, ending Team LeBron's five-game winning streak in the mid-season entertaining event. Before the top-off, the two sides' captains, Giannis Antetokounmpo and LeBron James selected their teammates in the following ways: Team Giannis: Jayson Tatum, Donovan Mitchell, Ja Morant, Lauri Markkanen, Damian Lillard, Paskal Siakam, Shai Gilgeous-Alexander, DeMar DeRozan. Domantas, Sabonis, Bam Adebayo and Jrue Holiday. Team LeBron: Kyrie Irving, Joel Embiid, Nikola Jokic, Luka Doncic, Jaylen Brown, Tyrese Haliburton, Anthony Edwards, Julius Randle, Paul George, Karen Jackson Jr. and De'Aaron Fox. Antetokounmpo only appeared on the court in the first possession of Sunday's game and completed a dunk before returning to rest on the bench. He is still dealing with a right wrist sprain. James played the first two quarters during which he scored 13 points and four assists. He seemed to have injured his right hand when he completed a dunk. A ceremony was held to honor his career milestone of surpassing Kareem Abdul-Jabbar as the NBA all-time scoring leader during the halftime break. Tatum shot 22-for-31 from the field, including draining 10 triples, to get 55 points in the All-Star Game, breaking the previous record of 52 points held by Anthony Davis. Tatum was named the All-Star Most Valuable Player for his incredible performance, receiving the award for the first time in his career. Both sides were cold from downtown in the first half as Team Giannis led 99-92 after the first two quarters. They also heated up first at the 3-point line from the third quarter and extended their lead to 17 points (158-141) before the final period. As a result, Team LeBron had to score 41 points before their opponents had 24 points in the fourth quarter to win the game. Team LeBron failed to do so. The final minutes of the fourth period became a more-or-less isolation contest between Tatum and his Boston Celtics teammate, Brown. Tatum scored 11 points while Brown responded with 13. In the end, Lillard made a 3-pointer from the left wing to seal the deal for Team Giannis.