China will take countermeasures against U.S. entities that have undermined its sovereignty after Washington placed six Chinese entities on an export control list citing the entry of a Chinese civilian airship into U.S. airspace, the Chinese Foreign Ministry announced on Wednesday. The Chinese side has made it clear time and again to the U.S. side that the incident involving the airship was a purely unintended, unexpected and isolated event caused by force majeure, Wang Wenbin, a spokesperson for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, told a regular press briefing in Beijing. "However, the U.S. has obstinately used force in an act of overreaction that escalates the situation, and used it as a pretext to illegally impose sanctions on Chinese enterprises and institutions," said Wang. China is firmly opposed to this and will take countermeasures against the relevant U.S. entities that undermine China's sovereignty and security in accordance with the law to resolutely safeguard its national sovereignty and legitimate rights and interests, he said. The Chinese Commerce Ministry on Tuesday also criticized the U.S. blacklisting, saying that the move undermines the security and stability of global supply chains, and inhibits world economic recovery and growth. During Wednesday's briefing, the Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson also said that since last May, the U.S. has released a large number of high-altitude balloons from its territory, which have continuously circled the globe and illegally flown over the airspace of China, including Xinjiang and Tibet, at least 10 times without the approval of relevant Chinese authorities. China responded to the U.S. balloons in a calm and professional manner, added Wang. He urged the U.S. to stop smearing the Chinese side or misleading the American public and the international community. "China reserves the right to make further responses if necessary," said the spokesperson. (Cover: Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin. /Chinese Foreign Ministry)