Kylian Mbappe reached 200 goals for Paris Saint-Germain to become the club's joint all-time top scorer as the France superstar netted twice in his side's 3-0 win over Ligue 1 title rivals Marseille on Sunday. Mbappe scored both his goals at the Velodrome from Lionel Messi assists and in between he set up the Argentine for PSG's other goal as they moved eight points clear at the top of the table. It was a result and a performance that will erase many of the doubts about a team that had been in stuttering form in recent weeks as they outclassed their most credible domestic challengers. Mbappe's brace took him to a double century of goals for PSG in just short of 250 appearances since signing from Monaco in 2017. The 24-year-old therefore equals his former teammate Edinson Cavani as the club's record marksman. Mbappe is now out on his own as Ligue 1's leading scorer this season with 17 goals and has 29 in 29 games in all competitions since the campaign began. Messi, meanwhile, now has 12 league goals this season and has set up 12 more, and PSG did not miss the absent Neymar. The Brazilian was sidelined after being stretchered off with an ankle injury in last week's 4-3 defeat of Lille. In Spain, La Liga leaders Barcelona tumbled to an embarrassing 1-0 defeat at Almeria, failing to capitalize on Real Madrid's derby draw with Atletico to extend their advantage. El Bilal Toure's fine first half strike split the teams and earned Almeria their first ever victory over Barca, inflicting only the second defeat of the league campaign on the Catalans. Xavi Hernandez's side still have a seven-point lead over champions Madrid, but their morale took a further blow following their midweek Europa League exit against Manchester United. Barca face Madrid in a Clasico Copa del Rey semifinal first leg on Thursday at the Santiago Bernabeu, with their vulnerabilities starting to show. Victory would have stretched their advantage in the title race to double figures, as they bid to win La Liga for the first time since 2019. Madrid beat Barcelona in the league in October in their first defeat and Almeria ended Barca's subsequent 13-game unbeaten league run.