Editor's note: Xin Ge is an associate professor at the School of Public Economics and Administration, Shanghai University of Finance and Economics. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. China's top diplomat Wang Yi on February 18 called for the concerted efforts of the international community in promoting peace and dialogue as the only solution to resolve regional disputes. Wang Yi, a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and director of the Office of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the CPC Central Committee, delivered a speech at the 59th Munich Security Conference (MSC), stressing China's unswerving commitments to peaceful development and expounding on China's stance on major international issues. Wang's speech represents President Xi Jinping's vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security. The MSC is an annual international forum dedicated to global, high-impact international security politics. The 59th MSC is of particular significance, as the Russia-Ukraine conflict is approaching its one-year mark, and the U.S. persistently hypes up tensions across the Taiwan Straits and has recently employed military force to shoot down a Chinese civilian unmanned airship. The three-day forum brings together about 40 heads of state and government, as well as hundreds of pundits in peace and security from about 100 countries to assess and discuss the main challenges currently and potentially facing humanity. Wang is the highest-ranking Chinese official to visit Europe since the 20th National Congress of the Communist Party of China (CPC), demonstrating the great significance that China attached to this conference. Wang has previously met with French and Italian presidents and German Chancellor, to express China's readiness to strengthen strategic communication, consolidate political mutual trust, deepen pragmatic cooperation with European countries so as to inject new impetus into China-Europe relations, providing stability to the world. Amid the shocks and tension encountered in recent times, the 20-year-old comprehensive strategic partnership between China and the European Union remains unyielding. As Wang emphasized on various occasions that although China and European countries have different social systems and cultural backgrounds, safeguarding world peace and promoting global development serves the common interests of both and the two sides can coordinate and cooperate on a wide range of other issues. The key message that Wang brought to the conference is that as a responsible major country, China has been acting as a responsible builder of world peace, a defender of the international order and a provider of global public goods, and always actively explored pathways to peaceful resolutions of international disputes. The Global Development Initiative (GDI) and the Global Security Initiative (GSI), proposed by Chinese President Xi Jinping in 2021 and 2022 respectively, constitute important practical support for the concept of a community of a shared future for mankind, of which development and security are an integral part. The drastic decline in the security situation in Europe and across the world over the past year proves the immense value of the Global Security Initiative proposed by China. Insisting on a security concept that is common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable is a fundamental solution to solving the security dilemma in Europe. Direct communication and exchange will facilitate trust and dispel misgivings between China and the West. Another key takeaway is China's stance on the resolution of Russia-Ukraine conflict. China has advocated for negotiations between the two warring parties that will result in a win-win outcome, in contrast with the U.S.'s isolationist policy against its geopolitical adversary. As Wang said, China has adopted an objective and impartial attitude towards international conflicts and stood ready to cooperate with the international community to promote peace and security. China has good relationships with Russia, Ukraine and Europe. It is palpable that China is one of the major powers in the world that can play a mediating role in promoting peace talks between Russia and the West. Last but not the least, China has been circumspect in dealing with foreign and diplomatic affairs, not just in its stance on Russia-Ukraine conflict. Even in the tensions over the Taiwan Straits, China has not exhibited any belligerence in front of provocations made by the U.S., given that China did have the might and wherewithal to engage its adversaries. It's time for the world to appreciate China's centuries-old tradition of peace-loving. As a major country from the developing world, China has served an indispensable role in the UN Security Council – its leverage can safeguard against hegemony and oppression by some Western powers whose foreign policies are anachronistic to global peace and security. Under the auspices of the GDI and GSI, people-to-people exchanges and multilateral cooperation will resolutely shape a rules-based development and security narrative in global governance and build a solid moral foundation for development, peace and security of the whole world. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)