Rescuers in Türkiye pulled out several survivors alive from collapsed buildings on Monday and are digging to reach a grandmother, mother and daughter from a single family, a week after the country's worst earthquake in modern history. With hopes of finding many more survivors in the rubble fast fading, the combined official death toll in Türkiye and neighbouring Syria from last Monday's quakes rose to nearly 36,000 and looks set to keep increasing. The rescue phase is "coming to a close", with urgency now switching to providing shelter, food, schooling and psychosocial care, United Nations aid chief Martin Griffiths said during a visit to Aleppo in northern Syria on Monday. Some 176 hours after the first earthquake, a woman named Serap Donmez on Monday was pulled out alive from a collapsed apartment block in the southern Turkish city of Antakya  by search and rescue teams from Türkiye and Oman, state broadcaster TRT reported. Another woman was rescued in southern Gaziantep province a few hours earlier CNN Turk reported. A 35-year-old was rescued from the rubble of a building in Adiyaman city, officials said. Rescue workers in Kahramanmaras said they had contact with a grandmother, mother and baby trapped in one room in a three-storey building, with a fourth person possibly in another room. They said they were trying to break a wall to reach the survivors but a column was delaying them. The Chinese rescue team pulled out a man from the ruins of a collapsed building in Antakya on Sunday afternoon more than 150 hours since the first earthquake. The deadliest quake in Türkiye since 1939 has killed 31,643 people there, Türkiye's Disaster and Emergency Management Authority said. More than 4,300 people were reported dead and 7,600 injured in northwest Syria as of Sunday, said a UN agency. The quake is now the sixth most deadly natural disaster this century, behind the 2005 tremor that killed at least 73,000 in Pakistan. Syria aid In Syria, the disaster hit hardest in the rebel-held northwest. The region has received little aid compared with government-held areas. "What is the most striking here, is even in Aleppo, which has suffered so much these many years, this moment, that moment... was about the worst that these people have experienced," Griffiths said. The people of the region have been "failed," he said in an earlier Twitter post. There is currently only a single crossing open on the Türkiye-Syria border for UN aid supplies. Griffiths said that the UN would have aid moving from government-held regions in Syria to the rebel-held northwest. Security concerns Residents and aid workers from several Turkish cities have cited worsening security conditions, with widespread accounts of businesses and collapsed homes being robbed. In a central district of Antakya, business owners emptied their shops on Sunday to prevent merchandise from being stolen by looters. Amid concerns about hygiene and the spread of infection in the region, Türkiye's Health Minister Fahrettin Koca said at the weekend that rabies and tetanus vaccine had been sent to the quake zone and that mobile pharmacies had started to operate there. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has said the government will deal firmly with looters. Türkiye said on Sunday about 80,000 people were in hospital, and more than one million in temporary shelters. Read more: Türkiye-Syria quakes: Türkiye vows probe over collapsed buildings (With input from agencies)