Ghanaian winger Christian Atsu has been found alive after being buried under rubble in the earthquake that hit Türkiye, the vice-president of his club Hatayspor told media on Tuesday. Atsu was reported missing in Türkiye's Hatay province following the 7.8-magnitude quake that brought down thousands of buildings, killing some 7,000 people, in several Turkish and Syrian cities on Monday. "Christian Atsu was pulled out injured. Our sporting director, Taner Savut, is unfortunately still under the rubble," Mustafa Ozat told Radyo Gol. Atsu has since been transferred to a hospital. Ozat also said several players and officials had been rescued from the rubble and that the club was working to help others. Newcastle, which Atsu helped to promotion from the championship in the 2016-2017 season, had tweeted that they were "praying for some positive news." Chelsea also tweeted their prayers. The 31-year-old scored a 97th-minute winner for Turkish top-flight side Hatayspor on Sunday as they beat Kasimpasa 1-0, but just hours later, was caught in the earthquake. Atsu played in the English Premier League for Newcastle United and Everton, on loan from Chelsea, and joined Hatayspor in September. Meanwhile, the first-ever Winter Gymnasiade 2023, which was scheduled to take place from February 11 to 19 in Erzurum, Türkiye, has been canceled due to the recent earthquake, the International School Sport Federation (ISF) and Türkiye Ministry of Youth and Sports made the announcement. "On behalf of the whole ISF family, we would like to express our deepest sympathies for the people of Türkiye during this difficult time. Our thoughts and our support are with the victims, their families and all the people of Türkiye recovering from this traumatic event," ISF said. "The ISF wishes to express its full solidarity with the Turkish people and hopes that they will be able to overcome this difficult ordeal with great patience, determination and courage." Thirty-six middle school students from six provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities in China were supposed to compete in Alpine skiing, cross-country skiing, curling and figure skating at the event. (With input from agencies)