Minnan culture, or Hokkien culture, is a significant ethnic culture in China, possessing distinct origins, characteristics, and historical importance. The cities of Quanzhou, Zhangzhou, and Xiamen in east China's Fujian Province are the birthplaces of Minnan culture. For Minnan people around the world, these cities hold tremendous cultural significance as they are seen as their ancestral homeland and a spiritual sanctuary. In December 2019, an area that overlaps with the administrative boundaries of the three cities was selected as one of the first national-level cultural ecological protection zones. Tourists can experience the rich and colorful Minnan culture by visiting the unique tourist attractions and savoring local cuisines. Kaiyuan Temple in Quanzhou Located in Quanzhou, the Kaiyuan Temple is a must-visit destination for tourists. Built during the Tang Dynasty (618-907), this magnificent structure is not only an important cultural relic but also the largest Buddhist temple in Fujian Province. This unique and elegant building showcases the charm of Chinese Buddhist architecture, attracting visitors from all over the world. As a key example of Chinese Buddhist culture, the Kaiyuan Temple largely follows the principles of Zen Buddhism. With its rich cultural connotations and historical significance, the temple provides a unique and spiritual experience for visitors. Tourists can explore the spiritual essence of Buddhism and even try meditation in the serene environment of the temple. Nanjing Tulou in Zhangzhou Zhangzhou, a historic and cultural city of China, boasts a diverse range of folk customs and traditions rooted in the profound cultural heritage of the area. One of the city's iconic cultural attractions is Nanjing Tulou, a stunning example of a unique type of rural dwelling found in the mountainous areas of Fujian. Listed as World Cultural Heritage Site in 2008, these earthen buildings, or tulou, are renowned for their distinctive architectural style, ancient history, and cultural value. Tulou was first constructed during the Song (960-1279) and Yuan (1271-1368) dynasties and took on their current shape during the Ming (1368-1644) and Qing (1644-1911) dynasties. Originally built by Hakka families as a means of living together and defending themselves against invaders, these buildings evolved from local mountain strongholds, most of which were circular in shape. The primary building material was red earth, which was readily available in the region. Shacha noodles in Xiamen Trying local food is a great way to gain a deeper understanding of local customs and culture while exploring historical sites and scenic spots. Shacha noodles are a popular dish in Xiamen favored by the locals. This noodle dish is made with shacha sauce and typically includes ingredients such as dried shrimp, sliced lean meat, tofu, and vegetables. The shacha sauce used in the dish is made by simmering ingredients like shrimp oil, dried shrimp, peanuts, fish oil, scallion, ginger, and garlic, resulting in a rich and savory flavor. The locally sourced noodles used in the dish are chewy in texture and complement the shacha sauce perfectly. With its widespread popularity, tourists can easily find shacha noodles in many restaurants and food stalls throughout the region, offering a delicious taste of Xiamen’s local cuisine.