The International Defense Exhibition and Conference is held from February 20 to 24 in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates (UAE), where an impressive array of China-made drones and anti-drone system are on display. China's booths, occupying an exhibition area of more than 2,100 square meters, are showcasing nearly 500 pieces of military equipment at this year's event. They cover both the traditional fields of aerial, maritime, and land warfare, as well as emerging fields such as internet security and unmanned weapons. China's drone manufacturer Aerospace CH UAV has its flagship Caihong or Rainbow drone series on display at the exhibition. The Caihong-5H unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), which was developed based on the CH-5 UAV, with a heavy-oil piston engine, has better autonomous control of the system and greater adaptability and anti-jamming capacity in high altitude environments. With a wingspan of more than 20 meters, the drone has many advantages including longer flight hours and flight range, as well as better payload capacity and safety. Meanwhile, the Chinese-made Sky Shield counter-UAV system is also grabbing the spotlight in Abu Dhabi. The system is an upgraded version of manufacturer Poly Technologies' Silent Hunter laser air defense systems. It is equipped with a state-of-the-art high sensitivity radar, which can better track and locate the target, and decide the best interception plan through its smart control and command system. The improved system can quickly spot the enemy's drone and enhance the capacity of low-altitude interception of helicopters and manned aircraft. "First, it can be used in combat operations on its own. Second, it is a low-power laser weapon. Third, as one of its major features, it can attack while on the road, which is an innovation," said Zhang Zhengwei, an exhibitor from the Poly Technologies. With multiple detection devices all installed in one vehicle, it is a convenient use in the mission, Zhang explained, adding that its low-power laser feature enables it to be deployed in missions such as personal security protection for important people.