Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas on Tuesday told U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken that the Israeli government "is fully responsible for the current tension and violence in the Palestinian territories". Abbas made the remarks during a meeting held at the presidential headquarters in the West Bank city of Ramallah with Blinken, who is on a three-day Middle East visit that started on Sunday, the official Palestinian news agency (WAFA) reported. "The Israeli government is responsible for the deterioration on the ground today because it has undermined the two-state solution and violated the signed agreements," Abbas was quoted as saying. Abbas also accused the international community of failing to end the Israeli military occupation of the Palestinian territories and end the Israeli settlement policy in the West Bank and East Jerusalem. He added that there is a lack of international efforts to recognize the Palestinian state and its full membership in the UN. Abbas listed to Blinken the Israeli unilateral actions and violations, including settlements, land annexation, settler terror, storming of the Palestinian territory, killing of people, and house demolitions. He added that "the complete cessation of unilateral Israeli actions, which violate the signed agreements and international law, is the main entry point for returning the political horizon and ending the Israeli occupation." "All this can be achieved under international references and the Arab Peace Initiative to make peace, stability and security for all in our region and the world," Abbas said. The Palestinians want to end the Israeli occupation of their territories occupied in 1967 and establish an independent Palestinian state in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip with East Jerusalem as its capital. Peace negotiations sponsored by the U.S. had stopped in 2014 following deep differences on issues like settlement, security and the Israeli recognition of a Palestinian state. On Tuesday, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said both Russia and Egypt agreed on the importance of resuming negotiations between Palestine and Israel during a press conference with Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry in Moscow. Lavrov stressed the importance of resuming work within the international quartet of Middle East mediators, adding that it is important for the quartet, composed of the United Nations, Russia, the European Union and the United States, to work in close coordination with any of the Arab states. He noted however that there was currently not much progress in this direction. The Palestinian Health Ministry had earlier stated that since January 1, the Israeli army had killed 34 Palestinians, including children and women, in the West Bank and East Jerusalem. Palestinian officials had warned of the Israeli escalation of killing Palestinians, mainly after the formation of the new Israeli government headed by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, which is the most right-wing in Israel's history. (With input from Xinhua)