Editor's note: Yin Xiaoxv is a professor at the Department of Social Medicine and Health Management of Tongji Medical College under Huazhong University of Science and Technology. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily those of CGTN. Over the past three years, the Party Central Committee, with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core, has led the nation to combat COVID-19, while China's role is a responsible power and contributing Chinese wisdom to it. After the COVID-19 outbreak on January 20, 2020, the first meeting of the joint prevention and control mechanism of the State Council was held. Accordingly, there are working groups for COVID-19 prevention and control, medical treatment, scientific research, publicity, foreign affairs, logistics support, and forward work. Since the emergence of COVID-19 in December 2019, China has implemented strict Class A prevention and control measures to control the development of the COVID-19 epidemic. With the reduction of the pathogenicity of Omicron, in December 2022, China adopted measures targeting Class B infectious diseases to manage COVID-19, using relevant resources, and better ensured the production and life of the people. The Chinese government has implemented "direction guidance, overall planning, and policy determination." From winning the COVID-19 battle of Wuhan and the dynamic zero COVID-19 strategy, the Chinese government has given top priority to the lives and health of the people, sparing no efforts to treat patients and minimize the rate of severe illness and mortality. From the "precise and rapid control of the epidemic" to the "transformation of economic growth from negative to positive" and to the "steady recovery of economic development," the Chinese government has taken a systematic approach to planning the overall situation, demonstrating the institutional advantages of "Chinese governance." From sharing experience in prevention and treatment, to providing countries in need with medical supplies, funds, technical personnel and other substantive assistance, Beijing has advanced international cooperation on epidemic prevention and control with a responsible attitude. The Chinese government has maintained that vaccines are global public goods. China was among the first to join the "Access to COVID-19 Tools Accelerator" to promote equitable distribution of vaccines and take concrete actions to ensure the accessibility and affordability of vaccines in developing countries. China has also supported the United Nations, the World Health Organization and other important international organizations with concrete actions, to promote positive interactions among major countries, focusing on global public health security for improved global public health governance, and jointly building a community of health for humanity. The Chinese government has led the Chinese to cope with the severe situation with the precise grasp of the epidemic control situation, adhering to flexible adjustments of control measures. The situation is in good shape, but there's the constantly mutating virus. Accordingly, the administrative departments at all levels should consolidate their hard-won major achievements. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)