China reiterated its commitment to a political settlement to the Ukraine crisis on Friday. Wang Wenbin, Chinese Foreign Ministry's spokesperson said at a regular press conference that on the Ukraine crisis, China has always taken an objective and just position, actively promoted peace talks and played a constructive role in advancing the political settlement of the crisis. He made the remarks when he briefed a 12-point paper stating China's position on a political settlement of the Ukraine crisis, which was issued by the ministry earlier that day. He said that on the one-year anniversary of Russia-Ukraine conflict, the ministry released the paper, China's Position on the Political Settlement of the Ukraine Crisis, to comprehensively and systematically explain the country's basic position and stance on the issue. He pointed out that the paper provides 12 principles of China's position on the political settlement of the crisis: respecting the sovereignty of all countries, abandoning the Cold War mentality, ceasing hostilities, resuming peace talks, resolving the humanitarian crisis, protecting civilians and prisoners of war, keeping nuclear power plants safe, reducing strategic risks, facilitating grain exports, stopping unilateral sanctions, keeping industrial and supply chains stable, and promoting post-conflict reconstruction. China is willing to continue to work with the international community on this basis and make its own contribution to promoting a political settlement to the Ukraine crisis, he stressed. The Ukraine issue has a complex historical context, he said, adding China decides its position on the issue based on the merits of the matter concerned, and always stands firm on the side of peace and dialogue, as well as on the right side of history. He pointed out that China also put forward other initiatives on the Ukraine issue, such as a six-point initiative to prevent a more massive humanitarian crisis. All of these have shown that China stands committed to promoting peace talks, said Wang. (Cover: The Chinese Foreign Ministry in Beijing, China. /CFP)