Editor's note: Ruqiya Anwar, a PhD scholar of Media and Communication Studies from Pakistan, is a researcher and socio-political analyst. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. China's renewed economic growth will have a positive impact on the global economy in 2023. As the world's second-largest economy, China's performance significantly impacts the rest of the world, and its recent rebound has raised optimism about global growth prospects. Additionally, the country's pent-up travel demand was unleashed during the seven-day Chinese New Year holiday, with very high numbers of travelers returning from abroad. During the Spring Festival holiday, 308 million domestic trips were made during the holiday week, about 90 percent of the 2019 figure. Outbound flight bookings increased 6.7 times over from 2022. Over 90 percent of Chinese cinemas have reopened, and box office receipts throughout the vacation scored over 6.7 billion Chinese yuan ($990 million), the second-highest holiday gross to date. China's January box office receipts exceeded 10 billion yuan ($1.47 billion), an all-time monthly record. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has raised its forecast for China's economic growth to 5.2 percent and stated that the country might be the largest contributor to global growth in 2023. Foreign companies such as Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs are optimistic about China's economy and have raised their growth predictions to more than 5 percent. Meanwhile, China's business-friendly measures have inspired confidence. In December last year, China's annual Central Economic Work Conference, which sets the tone for the country's economic policy for the coming year, emphasized support for the private economy and to protect their rights and interests in light of the increased difficulties faced by companies since the emergence of COVID-19. Notably at the beginning of 2023, executives from 21 private Chinese companies expressed optimism about the domestic economy. Those companies lead the development in the fields of technology, food, health, energy, etc. in China, and that is why their attitudes are widely representative. In addition, the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade surveyed 160 international companies and chambers from last December and found that 99 percent were confident about China's economy in 2023, and 98 percent expected to maintain or expand their investments there. This year, it is anticipated that China's tech and internet enterprises will undergo a fresh development cycle, which will boost job creation and the country's economic recovery. According to Standard Chartered Chairman José Vials, as the economic performance of East and West diverges, China's economy will be "on fire" in the second half of 2023. A surge of foreign investment has been noticed on the Chinese stock exchange as well. Foreign investors purchased more Chinese bonds last December than in the eleven preceding months. The advantages extend beyond Chinese investments. Investors are starting to realize that a global recession could be unlikely, partly due to the economy's swift rebound. As inflation risks arise in Western markets, there's a growing consensus that China's economic boom will act as the primary buffer against a potential global economic crisis. Moreover, in response to the development of global protectionism, the international community closely observes China's foreign investment policy. Despite the global gloom, China's economic development offers optimism. Although China maintains a unique position in the global political economy due to its massive population and physical size, it remains feasible for other economies to learn from the Chinese experience. Moreover, although capital investment is essential for economic development, it has become much more effective when coupled with market-oriented reforms that offer profit incentives for rural and small private businesses. The recent emergence of strong positive market and policy signals has emphasized China's dual position as a global economic stabilizer and powerhouse. China's opening-up policy has lured in more foreign direct investment in the country, creating higher employment and integrating the Chinese economy into worldwide markets. This combination may unleash a productivity boom that drives economic expansion; in this case, the Chinese model could be enlightening. Despite the gloomy global outlook, China's economic expansion will be the hope at the end of the tunnel. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)