As the full escalation of the Ukraine crisis reached its one-year mark, CGTN Think Tank launched a global opinion poll for global netizens, about 33,000 of whom voted within 24 hours. According to the poll, 82.6 percent of the respondents believe that the most important thing now is to cease hostilities and promote talks for peace. Dialogue and negotiation are the only viable solutions to the Ukraine crisis. The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs released China's Position on the Political Settlement of the Ukraine Crisis on February 24, comprehensively outlining China's basic position and propositions in 12 aspects. The paper states that unilateral sanctions and maximum pressure cannot solve the issue; they only create new problems. According to the poll, 91.6 percent agree with this and call on some countries to abandon the Cold War mentality and stop abusing unilateral sanctions and "long-arm jurisdiction" against other countries to avoid further escalation. The paper also states that the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of all countries must be effectively upheld, which is supported by 86 percent of the respondents who believe that the legitimate security interests and concerns of all countries must be taken seriously and addressed properly. Still, 87.45 percent of the respondents believe that the important role of the UN in resolving the Ukraine crisis should be given full play. They also agree that the application of international law cannot be applied with double standards and the international community has to make joint efforts. The conflict between Russia and Ukraine has been causing immense suffering of countless people, and China is highly concerned about this. The paper says efforts are needed to increase humanitarian assistance to relevant areas, improve humanitarian conditions, and provide rapid, safe and unimpeded humanitarian access, with a view to preventing a humanitarian crisis on a larger scale. According to the poll, 89.5 percent of the respondents agree with this view, and believe that all measures conducive to easing the humanitarian crisis must be encouraged and supported. In the year since the outbreak of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, China has always stood firmly on the side of peace and dialogue, and has insisted on promoting talks for peace. China's position paper has shown China's commitment as a responsible major country, and China's proposition of playing a constructive role in resolving the Ukraine crisis and achieving peace as early as possible. (Cover: The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs. /CFP)