UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Tuesday called on the United States and Russia to resume the full implementation of the New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (New START). Asked about Guterres' reaction to Russian President Vladimir Putin's announcement that his country will suspend its participation in the New START nuclear arms reduction treaty, spokesperson Stephane Dujarric said the secretary-general's position is that the United States and Russia should resume the full implementation of the treaty without delay. "The New START and successive bilateral treaties on strategic nuclear arms reduction between the two countries have provided security not only for Russia and the United States, but (also) for the entire international community," said Dujarric. A world without nuclear arms control is a far more dangerous and unstable one with potentially catastrophic consequences. Every effort should be taken to avoid this outcome, including through an immediate return to dialogue, he told a daily press briefing. Asked whether Guterres has plans to talk to Putin on the issue of the New START or the conflict in Ukraine, Dujarric said he had nothing to share at this point. Putin made the announcement while delivering his State of the Union address. Noting that "certain figures in Washington" are considering nuclear weapon tests to develop new types of nuclear weapons, Putin said "in this situation, the Russian Defense Ministry and Rosatom (Russia's State Atomic Energy Corporation) must ensure readiness for testing Russian nuclear weapons. Of course, we will not be the first to do this. But if the United States conducts a test, then we will," Putin said. The New START, the last remaining nuclear arms control treaty in force between the two nuclear superpowers, can be extended by a maximum of five years with the consent of the two countries. Russia and the United States officially extended the treaty by five years on February 3, 2021. Read more: Putin delivers annual State of the Nation address Russia denounces U.S. for undermining New START treaty (With input from Xinhua) (Cover: A Russian army RS-24 Yars ballistic missile system moves through the Red Square during a military parade in Moscow, Russia, June 24, 2020. /CFP )