A Chinese envoy on Tuesday called on the international community to step up support for the Central African Republic (CAR) to help the country achieve enduring peace and security. The CAR lately has achieved major results in advancing the peace process, strengthening state governance, and promoting development and reconstruction, said Dai Bing, China's deputy permanent representative to the United Nations, adding the international community should step up support to help the country achieve enduring peace and security at a critical period of transition from peacekeeping to peacebuilding. He stressed the importance of fully implementing the peace agreement, saying the dissolution of four armed groups late last year marks an important step in the peace process and other armed groups should join the disarmament process and participate in the political dialogue as soon as possible. He added that local elections slated for this year are of great significance to the consolidation of the peace process, so the international community should provide support to ensure the smooth holding of the elections, respect the CAR's sovereignty and ownership, and support it in following a development path that is suitable for its own conditions, he said. There is a need to curb the threat of armed groups, said Dai. China supports the CAR government's efforts to safeguard national security in accordance with the law and calls on relevant parties to cease violence. The international community should focus on assisting the CAR's efforts to implement national defense policy, build a security sector that is professional, efficient, and strong, and address new security threats. The Security Council's sanction measures, which impact the country's security capacity, should be lifted altogether, he said. He called on the international community to strengthen humanitarian support to the CAR, citing grave humanitarian situations in the country especially severe shortages of food and energy. He said the humanitarian assistance should focus on poverty reduction, food security, and infrastructure building, adding that main donors should resume unconditional aid as soon as possible. China stands ready to continue its efforts with the international community to provide more support for peace, stability, and economic and social development in the CAR, he said. (With input from Xinhua)