A report released on Monday exposed the world's most developed country's abuse of hegemony perils world peace and stability. In the name of "promoting democracy," the United States practiced a "Neo-Monroe Doctrine" in Latin America, instigated "color revolutions" in Eurasia, and orchestrated the "Arab Spring" in West Asia and North Africa, bringing chaos and disaster to many countries, said the report titled U.S. Hegemony and Its Perils. Click to read the full text of "U.S. Hegemony and Its Perils" The U.S. interference in Latin America brought a decades-old blockade of Cuba, which repeatedly urges U.S. to lift its sanctions on multiple international occasions, and also migrant crisis at U.S.- Mexico border, where migrants escaped the poverty and turbulent political situation in their homeland. Noting the year 2023 marked the beginning of a succession of "color revolutions," the report listed the "Rose Revolution" in Georgia, the "Orange Revolution" in Ukraine and the "Tulip Revolution" in Kyrgyzstan and cited the U.S. Department of State to show that U.S. openly admitted playing a "central role" in these "regime changes." Besides, the report also denounced the U.S. wonton use of force in past decades, which caused humanitarian tragedies. Citing the book titled America Invades: How We've Invaded or been Militarily Involved with almost Every Country on Earth, the report said that the U.S. has fought or been militarily involved with almost all the 190-odd countries recognized by the United Nations with only three exceptions. The wars including well-known ones in Iraq and Afghanistan have brought deaths, injuries and unsettled life for civilians in those war-torn countries. Since 2001, the wars and military operations launched by the U.S. in the name of fighting terrorism have claimed over 900,000 lives with some 335,000 of them civilians, injured millions and displaced tens of millions. The 2003 Iraq War resulted in some 200,000 to 250,000 civilian deaths, including over 16,000 directly killed by the U.S. military, and left more than a million homeless, according to the report. It also added that the United States has created 37 million refugees around the world. Since 2012, the number of Syrian refugees alone has increased tenfold. (Cover via CFP)