On Monday, the Miami Heat defeated the Philadelphia 76ers 101-99 at the Wells Fargo Center in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, ending their four-game losing streak. Jimmy Butler dropped 23 points, 11 rebounds, nine assists and four steals for the Heat after shooting 9-for-14 from the field. He also grabbed four offensive rebounds, more than anyone else in Monday's game. He made a tough double pump at 1:28 in the fourth quarter to regain his team's lead (100-99). The Heat led from 9:10 in the first quarter until 1:41 in the final period, thanks to their solid 3-point shooting performance. Six of their nine-player rotations drained triples, combining to go 15-for-37 from downtown. Their efforts hit the 76ers where it hurt the most, as their defensive pillar Joel Embiid had intended to drop behind in guarding screen plays. The other major factor that led to the Heat's victory on Monday night was their defense, which stripped their opponents of their offensive continuity. With their current defensive resources, they are unable to freeze either Embiid or James Harden completely without setting other 76ers free. That's why the Heat focused more on disrupting the opponents' offensive rhythm on Monday night. Instead of double-teaming Embiid recklessly, the Heat often allowed him to receive the ball above the free throw line but set a three-man defense to keep him from charging in. If Embiid tried to post up in the low block, another defender would come immediately to double-team him when he spun. As a result, Embiid made 10 of his 17 field goals (FGs) to score a double-double of 27 points and 12 rebounds, but he shot nearly four fewer attempts than his average. Moreover, as one of the most aggressive scorers in the league, Embiid only got seven free throws in Monday's game, much fewer than his season average of 11.8 on his front. The Heat did well in guarding Harden too. On Monday night, Harden connected with Embiid to complete several pick-and-roll plays that enabled Embiid to make jumpers in his sweet spots around the free-throw line. Nonetheless, these plays didn't happen continuously. The Heat's defenders would often blitz Harden to force him to give up the ball or switch to block his passing route to lure him in. Harden is not an offensive threat in the middle range, not to mention that Bam Adebayo always set up a pocket to trap him under the hoop. Usually, it takes a third firepower source to respond to the Heat's defense. However, Tobias Harris, who makes the third-highest salary on the 76ers' roster, failed to play that role, taking only four shots and missing three. Tyrese Maxey contributed 23 points off the bench but was fouled out at 3:21 in the fourth quarter. Other games on Monday (away teams come first): Detroit Pistons 106-117 Charlotte Hornets The Hornets extended their winning streak to five games after shooting 7-for-7 from downtown in the first quarter for a 41-21 run at Spectrum Center in Charlotte, North Carolina. LaMelo Ball contributed 18 points, six rebounds and five assists to the team in less than 21 minutes before fracturing his right ankle and quitting the game in the third period. The Pistons suffered their fifth straight loss and continued to bottom the Eastern Conference. Despite competing to draft Victor Wembanyama, the team gave their young men enough time to display their talents on the court. James Wiseman made nine of his 11 FGs to get 23 points. Marvin Bagley III contributed a double-double of 21 points and 12 rebounds off the bench. Boston Celtics 94-109 New York Knicks The Celtics ceased to lead the East after being upset by the Knicks at Madison Square Garden in New York City on Monday. They missed 33 of their 42 triples, failing to reach even 20 points in the first and final quarters. Eight of the bricks behind the arc came from Jayson Tatum, who only got 14 points after shooting 6-for-18 from the field. Six Knicks players scored in the double digits. Their bench unit, led by Immanuel Quickley and Josh Hart, outscored their Celtics counterpart 44-29. Having secured their sixth win in a row, the Knicks rose to fifth in the East. They are 2.5 games behind the Cleveland Cavaliers and the home-court advantage in the first-round playoffs. Orlando Magic 101-93 New Orleans Pelicans Paolo Banchero scored 20 of his 29 points in the second half at the Smoothie King Center in New Orleans, Louisiana on Monday. The score reached a 91-91 draw at 4:00 in the fourth quarter, but then Banchero made three straight jumpers in the middle range in the following three minutes, once again putting the Magic in the lead (97-93) before pocketing the win. The Pelicans suffered their fourth consecutive loss and won only seven of their last 27 games. Only three of their players reached double-digit points at home on Monday night. The team have already dropped to 10th in the Western Conference and are only half a game above the 12th-ranking Los Angeles Lakers.