China's homemade sci-fi movie "The Wandering Earth II" has become a certified blockbuster since its release on January 22. Based on a short story by Chinese sci-fi novelist Liu Cixin, the movie has triggered audiences' analysis around the plot and discussion on China's sci-fi industry. CGTN sits with Dr. Yang Yuguang, vice chair of IAF Space Transportation Committee, and discusses about how the development of China's sci-fi industry can have a positive impact on the country's scientific and technological development. Dr. Yang sees "The Wandering Earth II" as the "best sci-fi movie ever been produced by China," and mentioned the scene of the space elevator as the "only shortcoming." "Space [elevators] should use electricity, not propellants," said Dr. Yang, adding that maybe the producer and director used a rocket engine to power the elevator for a more powerful visual effect. "The reason we study the space elevator is because it does not use any propellant," he said. "If we can realize the space elevator, it will use only electricity, so that will greatly reduce the cost to go to outer place." Dr. Yang complimented the use of many technological concepts in the movie, including the quantum computer, artificial intelligence (AI), and the presentation of lives in the digital world. In 2020, China released a series of policies to promote the development of sci-fi movies, including building a pool of science consultants for sci-fi movies. "The Wandering Earth II" and the TV series based on Liu Cixin's novel, "The Three-body Problem," both had teams of science consultants during their production. "They did a very great job and played a very important role in producing these movies and TV series," Dr. Yang said. He stressed, it's the duty of the technicians, engineers and scientists to set up a bridge between the professional scientific fields and the public. Many Chinese major technology and science enterprises have expressed their support for "The Wandering Earth II" by saying, "You can imagine it, we will make it happen." Dr. Yang believes the development of China's sci-fi industry can help to boost the country's technological and scientific development. "In many works of Mr. Liu Cixin, he also has very good ideas. For instance, we've already discussed the space elevator," said Dr. Yang. He mentioned that nanotechnology and the nano materials will be very critical to hopefully become the key point of producing the space elevator in the "The Wandering Earth II." "Also, AI, especially the quantum computer… it's a very hopeful field," he said. Videographer: Zhao Wenting Video editor: Guo Meiping Graphic designer: Zhu Shangfan