Many people around the world are calling for the U.S. to remove its sanctions on Syria to provide convenience for earthquake rescue, according to a CGTN poll. The recent earthquakes that hit Turkiye and Syria have resulted in over 23,000 deaths and a grave humanitarian crisis in the latter, which is already grappling with the aftermath of a decade-long war. Despite the dire situation, rescue efforts in Syria are facing extreme difficulties due to a lack of heavy equipment and professional medical supplies. Moreover, many people have lost their homes and are forced to live in makeshift shelters with limited resources. However, the U.S. has only partially and temporarily frozen its unilateral sanctions against Syria, making it difficult for cargo planes loaded with supplies to land in the country's airports. This has sparked widespread criticism from the international community. According to an online poll by CGTN, around 94.29 percent of respondents called for the immediate lifting of U.S. sanctions to facilitate humanitarian aid efforts. On CGTN's English-language platforms, 94.52 percent of respondents feel disappointed with the U.S. sanctions, saying they should be lifted without conditions. About 87.35 percent and 95.62 percent of respondents on CGTN's Arabic and Spanish platforms, respectively, hold the same view. The U.S. has long been intervening in the Syrian crisis with frequent military operations and harsh economic sanctions, causing civilian casualties and a shortage of basic life supplies for many people. Currently, the U.S. is still occupying major oil production areas in Syria, exploiting more than 80 percent of the country's oil. It has also been smuggling and burning Syria's food stocks, further exacerbating the humanitarian crisis. Syria's foreign office said the U.S. violated the basic human rights of the Syrian people and limited their ability to seek a better life. They also called on the U.S. to lift its sanctions and make meaningful contributions toward global peace, stability and development.