The Chinese women's national football team has entered the second stage of their preparations for the 2023 FIFA Women's World Cup, manager Shui Qingxia said in an interview with China Media Group (CMG). "We have been focusing on tactical practice recently," Shui said. "We already finished the physical fundamentals previously in Haikou (capital of south China's Hainan Province). Now we switch to tactics to get ready for playing overseas." Shui said in the beginning, many players were unhappy with the massive fundamental practice and that she helped them overcome the resentment. "After a period of practice, players felt stronger and were able to run more. Then they would realize how important strength training is," Shui told CMG. Shui recruited some new faces for the training camp and the future development of the national team. "Honestly, I don't think we have enough young blood. It would be better if we have more," she said. "Of course, they will have to go through some steeling, regardless of success or failure. That's how players grow." Shui used Wang Linlin and her performance in the East Asian Football Federation E-1 Football Championship last year as an example. "Perhaps she didn't do well enough on one front, but she has established confidence after being given such an opportunity," Shui said. Shui believes that young players will grow mentally after playing in international tournaments. "For example, during regular training, they will be motivated to do more. Our fundamental practice was very tough, but these players completed all of them. They have better self-affirmation than before," Shui said. "But it's a process of repetition. Some players may do one thing well but then cease to do so after several games. I think that's because they haven't been steeled enough, so we need to have them play in international games constantly." The Chinese national team doesn't have a complete roster yet because some of the players haven't come back from foreign clubs, and some of those who have returned are not all in good form. However, Shui is convinced that allowing these players to go overseas is the right decision. "I don't regret it at the moment. I still want to encourage some of our players to go overseas," Shui told CMG. "But it's not an easy matter to judge right now." "I just do what I think is right and good for team development. We can wait till the end to judge the result. I will accept whatever conclusion," she said.