The Chinese men's national basketball team has been training in east China's Shanghai Municipality recently and had their first open training session on Saturday. Some of the players shared their views on the head coach Aleksandar Djordjevic with reporters. Wang Zhelin of the Chinese Basketball Association's (CBA's) Shanghai Sharks has been a regular national team member. He said that Djordjevic lays great stress on details of their work and that's exactly what Chinese players need to learn. "Serbia has a strong basketball team and very advanced basketball concepts for us to learn," Wang said. "We must study every detail Djordjevic requires. He is very specific with his requests for us on both offense and defense, including how to make an attacking move or if we should spin toward right or left." "In Djordjevic's system, big men have to move more quickly and shoulder more defensive duties. I am trying my best to do what asks," Wang added. As a national team veteran, Zhou Peng of the CBA's Shenzhen Leopards revealed that Djordjevic doesn't arrange long sessions in practice, but puts a lot of intensity in each program. "Djordjevic has high demands for our footwork," Zhou said. "We veterans may be slower than young players on this front, so we need to make up for it with our experience and thinking ahead." Zeng Fanbo of the CBA's Beijing Ducks was recruited by the national team for the second time. He played in the Ignite in the NBA G League before and is seen as a promising young man. He told reporters that Djordjevic keeps communicating with players both on and off the court. Whenever he sees a problem, he will correct it in time. "What he asked us to do the most is to keep talking to each other on the court," Zeng said. "That's the most important thing. He wants us to get united and get all five involved in the game." China have already qualified for the FIBA Basketball World Cup in August and September, but Djordjevic wants to use the rest two qualifier games to observe the team. They will play Kazakhstan and Iran in south China's Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on February 23 and 26 respectively.