The Los Angeles Rams and their star linebacker Bobby Wagner agreed to part ways, according to ESPN on Thursday. Wagner signed a five-year, $50 million contract with the Rams in March 2022. $20 million of his salary is guaranteed. As an eight-time Pro Bowler, he started all 17 games for the team in the past season and generated 140 tackles, career-high six sacks, two interceptions and defended five passes. Wagner was selected into the Second-team All-Pro for the third time in his career for his incredible performance. He was also voted into the First-team All-Pro six times back when he was playing for the Seattle Seahawks. Wagner's history with the Rams is longer than the one season he has played for the team. The Rams had planned to draft him with one of their three second-round picks in 2012. Back then, their linebackers coach Blake Williams even texted Wagner, telling him to "be ready." However, the Rams chose to trade down for a fifth-rounder in the end. The Seahawks drafted Wagner with the 47th pick. Being selected by the Seahawks turned out to work well for Wagner. Not only did he grow to become a top defender, he also won the Super Bowl with the team in 2014. The Rams part ways with a star like Wagner because they need to cut their salaries down. They are currently about $13.7 million above the salary cap, according to the Roster Management System. Releasing Wagner will save the Rams $5 million of salary cap space, but will add $7.5 million of dead money to their payroll. The team can also choose to release him after June 1, which will save them $8 million of salary space, but it can't be credited until summer. If Wagner had been still on the Rams' roster after the fifth day of the 2023 NFL league year, which begins on March 15, his $7.5 million base salary and a $2.5 million roster bonus due in 2024 would have become guaranteed. The Rams finished the 2022 season with a poor 5-12 record and ranked third in the National Football Conference West, failing to reach the playoffs.