Editor's Note: The Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference is China's highest political advisory body. It reflects China's commitment to enhance its own form of democracy, which is known as the "Whole-Process People's Democracy." In practice, members offer proposals on political, social and governance issues. In the first part of CGTN's special series "China's Democracy", we hear from one CPPCC member about his suggestions to improve conditions for workers in the aviation industry. Shanghai Spring Tour was founded in 1981. In 2004, it launched Spring Airlines, one of the first private airlines in China, turning the budget airline model into a success. Wang Yu joined Spring Airlines in 2008 and is now the company's chairman. He has also served as a member of the powerful political advisory body - the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, or CPPCC – for many years. He will present two proposals at this year's Two Sessions, China's largest annual political gathering. One is on ideas to boost the confidence of private enterprises. The other is about providing better conditions for workers in the airline industry. "The temperature in winter is always below zero. For Shanghai, it ranges between zero to minus 5 degrees Celsius. On the tarmac, it can go down to minus 10 to minus 20 degrees Celsius. In summer, the temperature in Shanghai may be 35 degrees Celsius, on the tarmac it can reach 50 to 60 degrees Celsius. Right next to the plane engine, it will be over 100 degrees Celsius. The conditions are very difficult," Wang said. Wang served as a member of the 13th and 14th National Committee of the CPPCC. Proposals he has made to the Two Sessions in the past cover the development of the airline industry and rural revitalization. "In 2018, I made proposals to improve airspace resources, as flight punctuality was relatively low at the time. At that time, I proposed to provide space for civilian use as much as possible, also some refined reforms on airspace decision-making mechanisms. The proposals received good feedback. They were immediately communicated to organizations in the civil aviation administration, which carried out pilot reforms," Wang said. Commercial airline punctuality returned to 80 percent in 2018. It has since risen to exceed 90 percent. Wang said his proposals have received widespread support from within the airline industry and beyond.