With its sea of forests, alpine meadows, sinkholes and canyons, Chongqing Jingzhu Village was named among the Best Tourism Villages of 2022 by the United Nations World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) for retaining the lifestyle and architectural features rooted in its unique geographical and cultural environment. Adjacent to the national tourist resort of Wulong Fairy Mountain, Jingzhu Village in southwest China’s Chongqing Municipality is rich in natural resources with a forest coverage rate of 75 percent. It is suitable to visit in both winter and summer. When covered with snow, Fairy Mountain is an excellent tourist attraction with its rime and ice waterfalls. In summer, with the vast forests here, the average temperature is 15C lower than in the main city of Chongqing, and the climate is cool and pleasant. Alongside its beautiful scenery, Jingzhu Village has developed an agriculture-based artistic pastoral complex with various ethnic features under the theme of "Garden Manor Paradise." The village is working towards the preservation of cultural heritage. Old houses built by local villagers, ancient firewood stoves, square tables and bamboo chairs, copper teapots and celadon cups are retained to offer tourists a taste of traditional rural life. To introduce folk customs and intangible cultural heritage into the travel experience, Jingzhu Village runs a series of workshops to teach and display intangible cultural heritage techniques – including traditional batik making, bamboo weaving, palm weaving, pottery making, tofu making, the traditional brewing of natural honey and paper-cutting classes – where tourists can soak up the charm of typical rural culture. In 2019, Jingzhu Village was included on the list of the first batch of key rural tourism villages in China. The old houses that were once on the verge of collapse have been transformed into distinctive homestays. The village has become a must-visit destination for many tourists across the country. Started in 2021, the Best Tourism Villages program aims to promote the protection and sustainable development of rural cultural heritage through tourism. In 2022, a total of 136 candidate villages from 57 countries participated in the election, and 32 villages including Chongqing Jingzhu Village were selected.