The United Nation's cultural agency UNESCO said it would provide support to its damaged World Heritage sites in Türkiye and neighboring Syria after a series of earthquakes hit the region. UNESCO also warned that other sites in Türkiye on the World Heritage list not far from the epicenter could be affected by the quake, including the famous archaeological site of Nemrut Dag. Türkiye's UNESCO World Heritage Site Gaziantep Castle was among the thousands of buildings destroyed by the earthquakes. The Roman-era castle located in southeastern Türkiye has a history dating back more than 1,700 years. The castle was considered to be one of the best-preserved fortresses in Türkiye. But now images shared by news agencies showed debris scattered around the castle and its surrounding area. The retaining wall next to the castle also collapsed while some bastions showed signs of cracking. The site has served numerous functions over the centuries and was still in use last year. Part of the castle was converted into the Gaziantep Defence and Heroism Panoramic Museum, honoring the city's fight against the French and British occupations. Gaziantep Castle was not the only historic site leveled by the quake. In Syria, a 13th-century citadel in the ancient city of Aleppo also sustained damage. Aleppo was once Syria's largest and most cosmopolitan city and is a renowned UNESCO World Heritage site. A statement from UNESCO said the organization and its partners had carried out an initial survey of the damage from the earthquake, paying particular attention to the old city of Aleppo. The statement also said UNESCO is mobilizing its experts and partners to establish a precise inventory of the damage, and cooperate with national authorities to safeguard these sites while respecting the current priority of rescue and relief efforts. The devastating earthquakes have already claimed the lives of over 15,000 people across Türkiye and Syria, according to news reports on Thursday. (With input from AFP)