For many Chinese tennis fans, seeing Wu Yibing tearing around the court with lightning speed, impeccable touch and never-say-die mentality seemed like a dream, too good to be true.  For decades, they have been searching for a Chinese male star to match their female counterparts' achievement in the prestigious game. Exciting prospects have come and gone, no one has lived up to the hype. Then, all of a sudden, Wu emerged. The 23-year-old, who missed a large chunk of the season from 2019 to 2021 due to niggling injuries, had won three ATP Challenger titles, the second-highest tier of the game behind the ATP Tour, since getting back into fitness. Last year, he made his mark on the international stage by becoming the first Chinese mainland male player to reach the third round of the U.S. Open. Now on Sunday night, Wu reached another milestone as he capped off his sensational ride to his first ever ATP final by withstanding 44 aces from John Isner before coming out on top in a nail-biting showdown at the Styslinger/Altec Tennis Complex.  He outclassed his 37-year-old American opponent 6-7(4), 7-6(3), 7-6(12) to clinch the Dallas Open, becoming the first Chinese mainland male player to lift an ATP Tour trophy in the Open Era. "I made history here for my country and for my home," beamed Wu at the on-court trophy ceremony. "I'm very proud of myself and especially thanks to all the fans and my team who came here to support. I couldn't do this without any of you guys." Wu started the much-anticipated final of the ATP 250 event playing free-flowing, attacking tennis, showcasing his sky-high confidence after coming back from a set down to upset top-seeded American Taylor Fritz in the semifinals. But he struggled to cope with Isner's ferocious serving barrage as the match fell away from him. The crowd's favorite could have wrapped up the game when the veteran American held championship point at 6-5, 30/40 in the second set, but Wu demonstrated a technique and composure belying his tender years to fight back from the brink before saving all three break points in the final tiebreaker to seal the historic triumph. "It's a tough one to lose," said a crestfallen Isner, who missed the glorious chance to capture his 17th title in front of the home fans. "I don't know how many match points I had, I'm sure it's a lot. I swear I thought I won the match a few times... Sports can be brutal." Despite the shock defeat, Isner has spoken in glowing terms about Wu, who will rise to a career-high world No. 58 after only being ranked No. 1,121 a year ago. "He [Wu] is an unbelievable ball-striker and a very good talent," said Isner. "It's like he plays every point the same, so definitely no nerves. He gets a ball to hit, he hits it, and on this court it's hard to hit him a shot he is uncomfortable with." After this thrilling victory, the hype surrounding the Hangzhou native will unquestionably go into overdrive. But every tennis enthusiast knows it's just a start. A new era is coming. Wu summed up the mood best when he reflected on his breakthrough in the post-game press conference later in the day. "I think it's not only about winning the title, it's more about me personally making history and also for the country. That's huge for the next generation," he observed.  "For me, I need to keep going, keep my body healthy. I'm sure there's more to come."