The China-Russia comprehensive strategic partnership is based on non-alliance, non-confrontation and non-targeting of any third party, said Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin on Tuesday. China will never accept the U.S. finger-pointing and pressures on the relations between China and Russia, said Wang at a regular press conference. Wang made the remarks after U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Sunday the U.S. was "very concerned" that China is considering "providing lethal support to Russia". The U.S., the biggest supplier of weapons to the Ukrainian battlefield, announced another $500 million in new military aid to Ukraine on Monday, but now it keeps spreading false information about China providing weapons, Wang noted. "What is the intention of the U.S.?" he asked. Claiming to maintain peace, the U.S. is benefiting from wars in reality. Where is the conscience of the U.S. military-industrial companies who are making a lot of money from the battlefield in Ukraine? Wang continued. The U.S. side should effectively reflect on what it has done, stop adding oil to the fire and stop taking advantage from the opportunity, and, like the Chinese side, genuinely promote peace and talks, the spokesperson added. Talking about Biden's visit to Kyiv, Wang reiterated China's stance, saying that the facts of one-year long Ukraine crisis prove that negotiation is the solution. "All parties, especially the major countries, should adopt a responsible attitude and create conditions for persuading peace and promoting negotiations rather than adding fuel to the fire, let alone taking advantage of the opportunity to profit," he responded. Wang also responded to the remarks by EU's foreign policy chief Josep Borrell about China's stance on Ukraine crisis. China is always on the side of peace and "commits to resolving relevant issues by promoting talks and negotiation". Some parties should not misunderstand China's stance and accuse China based on false information, he responded. (Cover: The Chinese Foreign Ministry. /CFP)