The Toronto Raptors edged past the Memphis Grizzlies 106-103 at FedExForum in Memphis, Tennessee, on Sunday, to secure their second straight win. By contrast, the Grizzlies lost their eighth in the past nine games. The Raptors missed their best wing defender OG Anunoby while the Grizzlies rested Ja Morant, Steven Adams and missed Dillon Brooks who was banned for his clash with Donovan Mitchell in their last game against the Cleveland Cavaliers. Though the Grizzlies seemed more short-handed, they were in an advantageous position during most of the time in Sunday's game. Desmond Bane's 3-point shooting, Xavier Tillman's offensive rebounding and Jaren Jackson Jr.'s defensive dominance in the paint enabled the team to lead by as many as 15 points (81-66) in the third quarter. However, the Raptors managed to rally at the best timing in the fourth quarter. Their sudden elevation of defensive aggressiveness forced seven turnovers by the Grizzlies, enabling the Raptors to score more easy points via fast break. Moreover, Scottie Branes went 6-for-7 from the field to get 13 points in this quarter alone, including making the two jumpers in the final minute that made his team lead. Though it was a physical competition that included many twists and turns, the Raptors and the Grizzlies had a low-quality game on Sunday night. The Raptors didn't play like a team that reached the NBA playoffs last season. They were disappointingly chaotic on both ends, lacking effective orchestrating on offense and smart rotation on defense. The Grizzlies exposed their problems as well and it were bad enough for them to lose Sunday's home game. Without Morant's charging of the rim and Adams' advantage in offensive rebounding, the team lacked the ability to change the opponents' defense vertically. As a result, Tyus Jones couldn't maintain his solid distribution of the ball. The Grizzlies committed as many as 20 turnovers while delivering only 25 assists. The Grizzlies were outperformed by the Raptors in the scoring efficiency of second-chance points. They grabbed only three fewer offensive rebounds (11-8), but had 14 fewer second-chance points. When the Grizzlies ceased to get as many open shots from downtown or easy baskets in transition in the fourth quarter as they had in the first three quarters, they had no other way of maintaining the regular offensive production. Jack Jr.'s remarkable defensive work was neutralized by his disappointing offensive performance. Not only did he miss all six triples, he missed three of his four field goals (FGs) in the final quarter, becoming of the reasons behind the Grizzlies' struggling offense. Other games on Sunday (away teams come first): Cleveland Cavaliers 122-103 Indiana Pacers The Cavaliers got their second consecutive win after all five starters scored in double figures at Gainbridge Fieldhouse in Indianapolis, Indiana, on Sunday. Both Evan Mobley and Jarrett Allen had double-doubles, combing to get 35 points, 23 rebounds and four blocks. The team is only half a game behind the fourth-ranking Brooklyn Nets after this victory. Myles Turner had 27 points and 10 rebounds for the Pacers in front of twin towers, Mobley and Allen, but he didn't receive enough help from teammates other than Buddy Hield and Tyrese Haliburton. The three got 27 of the team's 38 points in the third quarter, but still failed to reverse the situation. Philadelphia 76ers 97-108 New York Knicks The 76ers had a perfect start of the game at Madison Square Garden in New York City on Sunday with a 21-point lead (33-12) in the first quarter. But the Knicks soon responded with a 17-0 run in five minutes. Despite that, the 76ers still led by three points (79-76) when the fourth quarter began. Nonetheless, the whole team made only three of their 16 shots in the final period. By contrast, the Knicks came back on a 32-18 rally to avoid the second loss in a row. Joel Embiid scored game-high 31 points, but he only got six via shooting free throws in the fourth quarter for the 76ers. Evan Fournier and Miles McBride combined to drain five triples to score 16 points for the Knicks during the same period. The home team's bench unit outscored their 76ers counterpart 37-18. Sacramento Kings 104-136 New Orleans Pelicans The Pelicans have two straight wins after ending their 10-game losing streak. Trey Murphy III shot 6-for-8 from downtown to get court-high 28 points for the Pelicans at the Smoothie King Center in New Orleans, Louisiana, on Sunday. 41 of the team's 74 FGs fell into the net as the game was long gone after the third quarter. The Kings continued to struggle without their All-Star calibre point guard De'Aaron Fox. The team's starting lineup scored fewer points than their bench squad. Domantas Sabonis finished his 27 minutes with a mini double-double of 12 points and 11 rebounds. Keegan Murray went 0-for-4 from the field to get no point but only four rebounds. Orlando Magic 119-113 Charlotte Hornets Denver Nuggets 98-128 Minnesota Timberwolves