Chinese President Xi Jinping has stressed the importance of gaining a deep understanding of the Lei Feng spirit so that the spirit will shine more brightly in the new era. Xi, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, made the remarks in an important instruction on further carrying out the activities of learning from Lei Feng, a late ordinary soldier and a household icon in China celebrated for selflessly helping others. Xi noted that 2023 marks the 60th year since revolutionaries of the older generation, including Mao Zedong, wrote inscriptions for comrade Lei Feng. He said that activities of learning from Lei Feng have been carried out continuously and extensively over the past six decades. Lei Feng has become a household name in China, and his deeds resonate with the public, Xi said, adding that his spirit has nurtured the minds of Chinese people from generation to generation. It has been proved that no matter how times change, the spirit of Lei Feng will always be relevant, Xi said. Xi underlined the importance of earnestly grasping the contemporary connotations of the Lei Feng spirit, and of giving full play to the exemplary role of Party members and officials. Xi urged redoubled efforts to guarantee and support volunteer services, continue fostering and expanding volunteer teams dedicated to learning from Lei Feng, and promote such activities throughout society, especially among the youth, thus creating a mighty force for building a modern socialist country in all respects and advancing national rejuvenation on all fronts. Cai Qi, a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and a member of the Secretariat of the CPC Central Committee, on Thursday addressed a symposium marking the 60th anniversary of the call to learn from Lei Feng by Mao Zedong and other older generation revolutionaries. He stressed the importance of studying in depth Xi's important expositions on carrying forward the Lei Feng spirit to guide Party members, officials and the general public to pursue lofty ideals, practice core socialist values, and consciously integrate their personal aims into hard work for the cause of the Party and the people. Efforts should be made to deepen the study and interpretation of the Lei Feng spirit, strengthen theoretical and political guidance, and give full play to the exemplary role of Party members, officials and role models, Cai noted. He said the platforms hosting activities on learning from Lei Feng should be enriched to ensure such activities are appealing in this era, and that they are carried out on a regular and long-term basis.