A ballet drama adapted from "A Dream of Red Mansions," one of the four classic novels of Chinese literature, has made its debut in Beijing. The new production of "A Dream of Red Mansions" by the National Ballet of China combines Eastern aesthetics in costume and stage settings with a romantic Western-style narration. The story of "A Dream of Red Mansions" centers around Jia Baoyu, a young man from an aristocratic family, and his tangled relationship with the two female protagonists, Lin Daiyu and Xue Baochai. It's an epic tale reflecting the rise and fall of the Jia family and, by extension, the entire Qing Dynasty in the 18th century. Tong Ruirui, chief choreographer of the ballet drama, said that adapting the classic "A Dream of Red Mansions" for the stage was the ultimate dream for many directors, and she felt honored and grateful to adopt the Western art form of ballet to revive this Chinese literary classic, which lends the entire production a melancholic and dream-like atmosphere. Apart from the intricate choreography, another highlight of the show is the live orchestral accompaniment, playing newly commissioned music by composer Ye Xiaogang. Although the musical instruments are Western, the veteran artist still hopes to convey the poetic feel unique to the Chinese classic novel. Unlike previous portrayals of the heroine Lin Daiyu, which often feature a melancholic feel, his approach is much bolder and more full of energy, according to Ye. The novel, which draws readers into one of the finest fictional universes ever created in literature, was first published in 1791. And now with the ballet rendition, Zhang Qingshan, the president of the Society of "A Dream of Red Mansions" believes the work fits perfectly with the medium of ballet to convey the subtle emotions of the characters through the dancers' graceful moves. Zhang also hopes the novel will gain more recognition abroad. After its premiere in Beijing, the ballet production will go on tour to other cities across China such as Xi'an, Guangzhou, and Shenzhen later this year.