Following the successful 2019 blockbuster "The Wandering Earth," "The Wandering Earth II" was released during this year's Spring Festival as a prequel, taking audiences on a thought-provoking journey and thrusting Chinese science-fiction films into the spotlight once again. With new breakthroughs in visual effects and storytelling, the film showcases the country's rapidly developing capabilities in the film-making industry and overall development in manufacturing and scientific research. So far, the movie has raked in over 3.8 billion yuan (about 550 million USD) since its release. "The Wandering Earth II" tells the story of mankind trying to save Planet Earth and human civilization as the sun rapidly begins to burn out. The movie series is adapted from a novel by Chinese Hugo Award winner and science-fiction writer Liu Cixin. As the author of the original work, Liu said that "Wandering Earth II" adds a more "documentary" feel to the imaginative world of science fiction.“It exceeds the level of the first film in every way. From the special effects to the acting and the story, it is much better," he added. Science fiction films tend to be quite sophisticated and require a high level of technical skill. The production team explored ways of integrating industrial production concepts while boldly innovating during the production process, as they aimed to blaze a new path and shore up the development of China's science-fiction genre. According to director Guo Fan, from the beginning of the script-writing process, the production team was keen to escape the typical Hollywood-style format of having three acts and a seven-point structure. Moreover, 95 percent of the visual effects were done by domestic teams, a fact of which Guo is proud. To present the story more vividly, the filmmaker used a live-action studio spanning 1 million square meters. The production team devoted themselves to every detail and produced nearly 10,000 story board drafts, more than 6,000 visual effects shots, and 95,000 props and costumes. Art Director Gao Ang said they hoped to make a big breakthrough in the film's art design that did not lie in the complexity or novelty of the design, but in the degree of authenticity and realism. The foundation of Chinese science fiction comes from the sheer power of Chinese manufacturing and scientific research. Guo Fan credits the recent breakthrough in science fiction movies to China's rapid development. "If it weren't for the improvement of our country's manufacturing and technology, we wouldn't be able to complete this film in the real world. We have a lot of applied technology, including CNC lathes, 3D printing, as well as mechanical products and engineering vehicles. The reason why they can actually appear on screen is that our production capacity and technology have reached a certain level," said Guo. Apart from the breakthroughs in terms of production, what makes the movie so popular is that it blends the theme of national pride with blockbuster entertainment, while conveying Chinese values that appeal to a wide range of moviegoers. "When the solar system is going to die, Chinese scientists show we have the ability and the potential to take the Earth on a wandering trip. This leads to the decision made in the movie about the 'wandering earth.' In fact, this is also a reflection of a community with a shared future for mankind. It aligns with the time-honored culture and spirit of the Chinese nation," said Fu Ruoqing, the film's chief executive producer. "The Wandering Earth II" has been released in Mandarin with English and Chinese subtitles in several overseas markets, including North America, the UK, Australia and Singapore. The movie has won strong reviews and high praise from audiences. Critics hailed it as a welcome addition to the thriving Chinese sci-fi genre.