Shui Qingxia, manager of the Chinese women's national football team, will adjust the team's roster to make sure that all players will be in their best form when they participate in the FIFA Women's World Cup, the Asian Games and the Paris Olympics women's football qualifiers in 2023. China, Australia, Japan, South Korea and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea will skip the first round of the Paris Olympics women's football qualifiers in April. The second round of competitions will take place in late October, after the World Cup in July and August and the Asian Games in September and October. "The team has three major tournaments to play this year, so we can't afford to have the same 23 players go through all of them. We may adjust the roster between the competitions to make sure that everyone is in good form," Shui said in an interview with Football, a Chinese newspaper that reports on the sport. Since China will face very different opponents in the tournaments, Shui wants to have the most suited players for each competition to play to their strengths. China are in Group D with England and Denmark in the World Cup. England, which won the UEFA Women's Euro 2022 championship, will be the biggest threat to the Chinese national team. "They are definitely strong opponents, but that doesn't mean we must give up our own advantage," Shui told Football. "We do well on many fronts." The team is currently training in Spain and will play some traditional powerhouses like Sweden and Ireland. "We haven't played European teams for a long time. It will take some time for our players to find their pace and form back," Shui said. "I also want to take this opportunity to find out our advantages over the European teams. I don't think they will see us as an easy competitor. We are no easy piece of cake." Italy knocked China out in Round 16 of the World Cup in 2019, and they didn't do well in the Tokyo Olympics in 2021. However, winning the title in the Asian Football Confederation Women's Asian Cup after the arrival of Shui in 2022 was a big boost to the team's confidence. Shui said she is confident in the national team's performance in the three tournaments this year.