Vinicius Junior and Karim Benzema scored twice as Real Madrid produced another stunning Champions League fightback from 2-0 down to thrash Liverpool 5-2 in the first leg of their last 16 tie at Anfield on Tuesday. Darwin Nunez and Mohamed Salah had given the hosts a perfect start in a repeat of last season's Champions League final. But Vinicius struck twice to level by half-time and, after Eder Militao had given Carlo Ancelotti's men the lead, Benzema's double put the holders well on the way to the quarterfinals. It was Liverpool's heaviest home defeat in Champions League history, eclipsing a 3-0 loss to the same opponents in 2014. "It's an important night for us, we showed personality and scored the goals we needed. We want this Champions League title," Benzema told Spanish media Movistar Plus. "We struggled in the beginning, they started well, better than us, it was a big game. But we managed to turn things around. We are in a good position but football is tricky and we have to close the deal at home," he added. "Mixed feelings. Frustration with the result. For large parts of the first half, we performed well and were unlucky to be level at halftime. We made too many mistakes. Real Madrid punished us every time tonight," Liverpool captain Jordan Henderson said. Goals from Victor Osimhen and Giovanni Di Lorenzo gave Napoli a comfortable 2-0 victory against 10-man Eintracht Frankfurt in their Champions League last-16 first leg on Tuesday. In-form Nigeria striker Osimhen, who has now scored 10 goals in his last nine games across all competitions, tapped in at the far post to give his team a 40th minute lead. Captain Di Lorenzo doubled it from a superb backheel assist by Khvicha Kvaratskhelia, who made amends for his first half penalty miss. "Napoli did well against a strong side. It was tough at first, but we had a great game," Di Lorenzo said. "We made a mistake on the halfway line and Napoli had the speed and the quality to use it," Frankfurt manager Glasner said. (With input from agencies)