Brazilian star striker Neymar of Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) admitted that he had an argument with the club's sporting director Luis Campos after the 3-1 Ligue 1 loss to Monaco at the Stade Louis II on February 11. "It happened, a little discussion, we weren't in agreement. It's part of football," Neymar said at a press conference on Monday. "Things happen every day. But I love them all. It's like with my girlfriend. Football isn't just love and friendship. There is respect, but there have to be disagreements and discussions sometimes are needed to help you improve." PSG have lost three of their six Ligue 1 games since the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar, watching their lead on the standings table shrink to five points. They were also knocked out from the Coupe de France by Olympique de Marseille in the round of 16 game. Considering PSG's lengthy dominance in French football in the past decade, their recent sloppiness is rare. "We are not used to losing, so of course when we lose matches, that can disturb us. But it's part of the process of getting better," Neymar said while expressing his frustration that locker room secrets were leaked. "Sometimes there are rumors that come out in the press, with malice intent. It goes around the world very quickly. A lot of people see it and sometimes it's lies, it's complicated," Neymar added. "It's my sixth season at PSG and it's not easy. Since my arrival, it happens that rumors come out at key moments of the season. There are always rumors." PSG will play Bayern Munich in the first leg of the UEFA Champions League Round of 16 competitions at the Parc des Princes on Tuesday. It's the third time the two clubs meet in the Champions League knockout stage in four years. Bayern beat PSG in the 2019-20 final; PSG won in the 2020-21 quarterfinals. "I know that my team will rise to the occasion. I don't think Bayern are the favorites. It's 50-50. It's a Champions League game," PSG’s manager Christophe Galtier said at the press conference on Monday. "No one will be qualified after tomorrow's game. Bayern have been better lately and for some reasons it's not the case for us but I have a bigger squad at my disposal for tomorrow."