As one of, if not the, greatest footballers to have ever graced the game, Lionel Messi scarcely needs another top prize to decorate his long and illustrious career. "We won the Copa America and the World Cup, there's nothing left," the seven-time Ballon d'Or winner famously told reporters after leading Argentina to the ultimate glory in Qatar.  But when Messi was announced as the winner of men's player of the year at FIFA's annual award ceremony in Paris on Monday night, the 35-year-old's eyes sparkled with genuine merriment. It capped off a surreal year, during which he scored 27 goals in 49 games and finally got his hands on the most coveted international trophy at the fifth time of asking. "Wow, it's amazing. It's been a tremendous year and it's an honor for me to be here tonight and win this award," Messi said with emotion in his voice after making his way to the stage. "Without my team-mates I wouldn't be here. I achieved the dream I had been hoping for for so long. Very few people can achieve that and I have been lucky to do so." It is the second time that Messi has won the award inaugurated by FIFA in 2016 after the football's world governing body split from Ballon d'Or organizers France Football. The winner is decided by a jury comprised of the coach and captain of every men's national team and one journalist from each country, but fans can also vote. Messi is the first player in history to win the Golden Ball for best player twice at the World Cup, having netted seven goals in seven games in Qatar to clinch his career-crowning triumph. He is also the first player to score in every knockout game at the showpiece event. At club level, despite an underwhelming first season in French Ligue 1, Messi has returned to his fine form, notching an impressive 17 goals and 16 assists in 28 appearances for PSG this campaign. On Sunday, he bagged the 700th club goal of his professional career as the French giants extended their lead at the top of Ligue 1 with a 3-0 win over title rivals Marseille. Messi's club teammate Kylian Mbappe, who was also one of the final three nominees for men's player of the year award along with last year's Ballon d'Or winner Karim Benzema, finished second in the vote. The French wunderkind was the top scorer at the Qatar World Cup with eight goals, including a historic hat-trick in the final. However, Messi's achievements in Qatar overshadow everything else. It comes as no surprise that it was a clean sweep for Argentina's World Cup heroes in the men's categories. Messi watched in pure delight as his Argentina head coach Lionel Scaloni won best coach and Emiliano Martinez, who saved four penalties in Qatar, including in the shootout victory against France in the final, was named best goalkeeper. "They always ask me who my idols are or who I watched when I was a kid… Watching my mum clean buildings for eight or nine hours and watching my dad work. They are my idols," said Martinez, who beat Morocco's Yassine Bounou and Belgium's Thibaut Courtois to the award. In the women's categories, Barcelona and Spain striker Alexia Putellas became the first footballer ever to claim a second consecutive women's player of the year. England boss Sarina Wiegman was named women's coach of the year after guiding the Lionesses to the Euro 2022 title on home soil last year. "From when I could walk, I loved football and over the years I've seen how the women's game has grown and developed," said Wiegman, who pipped Lyon's Sonia Bompastor and Brazil coach Pia Sundhage to the honor. "It's incredible to be here right now and celebrate women's football. We have heroes in this room, little girls have their idols." Manchester United star Mary Earps, who started all six of England's games at Euro 2022, clinched the women's goalkeeper award. "Thank you so much to my loved ones, for peeling me off the kitchen floor," Earps said in her arousing acceptance speech. "Anyone who's been in a dark place, keep going, know there's light at the end of the tunnel. Be unapologetically yourself." Full list of winners The best men's player: Lionel Messi The best women's player: Alexia Putellas The best men's goalkeeper: Emiliano Martinez The best women's goalkeeper: Mary Earps The best men's coach: Lionel Scaloni The best women's coach: Sarina Wiegman The best Puskas award: Marcin Oleksy The best fan award: Argentina fans The best fair play award: Luka Lochoshvili