Here are a few stories from around Asia you may have missed this week. The Republic of Korea will decide whether to lift its remaining COVID-19 policies based on a World Health Organization (WHO) decision on the status of the disease, the country’s public health chief said on February 7. The Korean Herald reported that: “Disease Control and Prevention Agency Commissioner Jee Young-mee said in a press conference that the future course of COVID-19 policies change would likely come after the WHO withdraws its official emergency designation.” Last week the country withdrew its mandatory face mask rule, except on public transport and in medical facilities. Indian businessman Gautam Adani, who until last week was Asia’s richest man and the world’s second richest, relinquished those positions after losing $100 billion almost overnight. Hindenburg Research, an American firm, published a report last week that accused the Adani group of “brazen stock manipulation and accounting fraud scheme over the course of decades.” The group at that point had a market value of over $200 billion. It became a political issue because Adani is considered to have close ties with India's ruling Bharatiya Janata Party government. The Adani Group has rejected the claims made in the report. Pakistan’s former president, Pervez Musharraf, was given a quiet burial on February 7 in Karachi city. The country’s prime minister, president and army chief all stayed away and local media did not air the service. Musharraf spent his last years in exile in Dubai and was a controversial figure in his home country given the way he took power from then Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, and the iron-hand he used to rule Pakistan. Sri Lanka’s president said on February 8 that the island nation will remain bankrupt for at least three more years as he works to repair battered government finances following an unprecedented economic crisis. “If we continue according to this plan, we can rise out of bankruptcy by 2026,” President Ranil Wickremesinghe said during an address to Parliament as he urged support for economic reforms. The Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) held a military parade on February 8 to celebrate the 75th founding anniversary of the Korean People's Army, according to the Korean Central News Agency. Reuters reported the parade was held at night and featured more missiles than ever before. The DPRK's top leader, Kim Jong Un, was seen at the parade with his daughter. (Cover: Citizens wearing masks in the waiting room of Gwanghwamun Station on Seoul Line 5. As masks are no longer required, they do not need to be worn in subway stations, bus stations, airports or other places, Seoul, January 30, 2023. /CFP)