Wendie Renard, the defensive spine of the French women's national football team, announced on Friday that she won't participate in the FIFA Women's World Cup due to mental health issues. "I love France more than anything, I am not perfect, far from it, but I can no longer support the current system, which is far from the requirements of the highest level," Renard posted on twitter. "It is a sad day but necessary to preserve my mental health. It is with a heavy heart that I come to inform you of my decision to step back from the French team." "Unfortunately, I will not be playing in this World Cup under such conditions. My face may hide the pain but my heart is suffering ... and I don't want to suffer anymore," she added. Renard was removed from the France captain role by manager Corinne Diacre in 2017 after they were knocked out of the UEFA European Women's Championship by England in the quarterfinals. Though Renard was named the captain again in 2021, French multimedia outlet RMC Sport revealed that Renard won't play for France until Diacre is sacked. Later on Friday, Marie-Antoinette Katoto and Kadidiatou Diani of the French national team said they support Renard and won't play for the team until "necessary changes are finally made." "Following the press release of our captain Wendie Renard and in view of the recent results and management of the French national team, I announce that I am suspending my international obligations in order to concentrate on my career at club level," Diani wrote. "I am the first fan of the French team and if the necessary changes are finally made, I will return..." The French football players' union, the UNFP, expressed their support for the three players. "This cry of alarm must serve as a catalyst, and push the parties concerned to consider the concrete consequences of how far we've fallen behind over the years," the organization said in a statement. The French Football Federation (FFF) responded to the three players' statements as well, raising that "no individual is above the institution that is the French national team." The Women's World Cup will take place in New Zealand and Australia between July 20 and August 20. France will play Brazil, Panama and Jamaica in Group F. Their best record for the tournament is finishing fourth in Germany in 2011.