The Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee held a consultative meeting Tuesday to hear opinions and inform non-CPC political parties, the All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce and personages without party affiliation of a plan on the reform of Party and state institutions. President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the CPC Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, presided over the meeting and delivered an important speech. Attendees were informed by the CPC Central Committee on the plan for the reform of Party and state institutions. The CPC Central Committee also informed them of a list of proposed candidates for state leadership scheduled to be recommended to the first session of the 14th National People's Congress (NPC), and a list of proposed candidates for the leadership of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), which is to be recommended to the first session of the 14th CPPCC National Committee. In his speech, Xi pointed out the 20th CPC National Congress made important arrangements for deepening the reform of Party and state institutions. It urged efforts to deepen structural reform in the financial sector and improve the system in which the Party Central Committee exercises unified leadership over science and technology work, Xi said. Improving the government responsibility system and organizational structure, improving the Central Committee's decision-making, deliberative, and coordinating institutions, and better-allocating staffing resources for Party and state institutions are also mentioned by Xi. He also listed arrangements including guiding community-level governance through Party building, stepping up Party building in mixed-ownership and non-public enterprises and improving the management systems for Party building in trade associations, academic societies, and chambers of commerce. Xi told attendees that the reform plan was submitted for review at the second plenary session of the 20th CPC Central Committee and after the second plenary session's adoption, part of the reform plan will be put to the first session of the 14th NPC for deliberation in accordance with due legal procedures. In general, the party and state institutions reform highlighted key industries and areas, which is more targeted, vigorous and extensive with deep interests being stirred, Xi pointed out. It will focus on solving some major issues, social concerns of difficult issues and will have an important impact on economic and social development, he added. In terms of the coming first session of the 14th NPC and the first session of the 14th CPPCC National Committee, Xi said the election of a new state leadership and leadership of the CPPCC National Committee will be important tasks at the Two Sessions, which is also a big issue concerning the overall situation. The CPC Central Committee has attached great importance to the election, conducted research, and consulted and heard opinions within a certain range, he said. The election should also be focused on improving the work of the NPC and the CPPCC National Committee, as well as uniting and pooling various resources, with an emphasis on ability and political integrity when appointing officials, he said. After being discussed at meetings of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, lists of proposed candidates for state leadership and the CPPCC National Committee were submitted for review at the second plenary session of the 20th CPC Central Committee, which concluded Tuesday. Xi said he hoped non-CPC parties, the ACFIC and personages without party affiliations could deeply understand the significance of this reform and would unite in thought and action while supporting the CPC Central Committee decisions to deepen reform. Deputies and political advisors of non-CPC parties, ACFIC and personages without party affiliations are also encouraged by Xi to fulfill their duties and promote positive energy at the Two Sessions. He urged them to have a clear understanding of the overall situation, convey confidence, unite and lead their members and the masses to unify their thoughts and actions to the decisions and arrangements of the CPC Central Committee, actively provide advice, build broad consensus, solve doubts and provide educational guidance in a more targeted manner, so as to achieve the goals and tasks for the year with a joint endeavor. Leaders of non-CPC parties, the ACFIC and representatives of the personages without party affiliations unanimously agreed upon the decision by the CPC Central Committee on deepening reform of Party and state institutions, and voiced their staunch support and raised suggestions.