February 24, 2023, is the first anniversary of the start of the Russia-Ukraine conflict. This is the largest military conflict of the 21st century in Europe and has not only caused massive psychological shock to local populations, but also significantly impacted the world. The enormous loss of human life and property is the direct and tragic price of the conflict. Since its outbreak, the conflict has killed or wounded tens of thousands of civilians and created millions of refugees, while military casualties continue to mount. Moreover, the conflict has devastated the national economies of both sides. As the conflict escalates, prices soar while the water and power supplies are often cut. Nearly 50 countries are relying on imports from Russia and Ukraine, which are playing a key role in global grain production and supply, to guarantee at least 30 percent of their domestic wheat supply. Most of them are the least developed countries from North Africa and Asia, which are facing severe food insecurity. A crush on production and supply, combining with sanctions on Russia, has aggravated the global food crisis leading to supply shortages and skyrocketing prices. According to the World Food Programme, more than 828 million people around the globe go to bed hungry every night. The non-stop stream of sanctions imposed on Russia by the West has also exacerbated the global energy crisis. When the EU went through a difficult energy shortage after cutting off Russian energy supplies, the U.S. took full opportunity to price gouge its longtime EU allies. The prolonged conflict has triggered high inflation worldwide that allowed the strong greenback to drain the global economy. The U.S. Federal Reserve's successive rate hikes, ostensibly to fight soaring domestic inflation, have led to a global trend of rising rates that has claimed several currencies as victims. As the hikes continue, the global economy will likely fall into recession and inflict profound pain, especially on emerging markets. The U.S. has also leveraged the conflict to consolidate and expand its military bloc. A legacy of the Cold War, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) was already incompatible with modern times, but American bait disguised as "security assistance" lured new members that have already abandoned their strategic autonomy for the illusion of U.S. protection. The Russia-Ukraine conflict has already lasted a year with no hope of peace on the horizon. While the international community calls for peace, some forces insist on fueling the fire. Thus far, U.S.-led NATO has provided tens of billions of dollars in weapons to Ukraine, which not only benefits American arms dealers, but also furthers the goal of depleting Russia through prolonged conflict. In the Great Power game, ordinary people always suffer most. When will talks on peaceful resolution be initiated? (To submit cartoons and share story ideas or feedback on our cartoon page, please contact us at cartoon_opinions@cgtn.com)