A symposium for Taiwan businessmen celebrating the Spring Festival was held in Beijing on Sunday, calling on compatriots and businessmen in Taiwan to positively promote cross-strait exchanges and cooperation. Song Tao, head of both the Taiwan Work Office of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and the Taiwan Affairs Office of the State Council, extended Spring Festival greetings to all Taiwan businessmen, adding that both sides of the Taiwan Straits are as close as one family. He expressed his hope that compatriots on both sides of the Straits will work together in the same direction and  move forward hand in hand, so as to create the long-term well-being of the Chinese nation. "We should thoroughly implement the guiding principles of the 20th CPC National Congress and the general strategy of the CPC for solving the Taiwan question in the new era," he said, urging everyone to uphold the "One Country, Two Systems" principle. Song also called for respecting, caring and bringing benefits to all Taiwan compatriots and helping businesses and enterprises in Taiwan to integrate into the new development pattern and participate in the high-quality development. The mainland will be committed to promoting cross-strait exchanges and cooperation in various fields and providing convenience for cross-strait personnel exchanges, aimed at pushing to realize the normalization of cross-strait exchanges and communication, and continuously improving the well-being of compatriots on both sides of the Straits, Song said. Based on the one-China principle and the 1992 Consensus, Song said the mainland is willing to carry out extensive and in-depth consultation with people of insight from all walks of life in Taiwan on cross-strait relations and national reunification. "As long as the Taiwan authorities agree with the 1992 Consensus that embodies the one-China principle, cross-strait negotiations can resume," said Song. He called on compatriots and businessmen in Taiwan to positively promote the cross-strait exchanges and cooperation, and firmly oppose "Taiwan independence" separatist activities and interference from external forces, so as to jointly push forward the peaceful development of cross-strait relations and the process of national reunification. Li Zhenghong, president of the Association of Taiwan Investment Enterprises on the Mainland (ATIEM), said the mainland has huge development space and bright prospects, and that most Taiwan businessmen are full of confidence in developing business on the mainland. Besides, many Taiwan businessmen expressed their hopes for promoting cross-strait exchanges and cooperation. A Taiwan businessman based in Shanghai said excellent traditional Chinese culture is the spiritual lifeblood of the Chinese nation, and more concrete measures will be taken to promote cross-strait cultural and people-to-people exchanges. Another Taiwan businessman based in south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, said compatriots on both sides of the Straits should forge ahead and jointly promote the process of national reunification. The symposium was co-hosted by the Taiwan Work Office of the CPC Central Committee and the Taiwan Affairs Office of the State Council. More than 50 representatives of Taiwan businessmen attended the event.