Zhu Lin's stunning progress over the last few weeks shows no signs of slowing down as the Chinese tennis star, having so often fallen agonizingly short on the biggest stage, clinched her first WTA tour singles title after edging out Ukrainian veteran Lesia Tsurenko 6-4, 6-4 at the Thailand Open. The 29-year-old late bloomer, who was only ranked No. 114 this time last year, displayed admirable resilience and bravado in the nail-biting showdown in Hua Hin. No one raised an eyebrow when former world No.23 Tsurenko, who upset 2019 U.S. Open champion Bianca Andreescu in the semifinal, had a strong start and enjoyed a 3-0 double break. But Zhu, initially understandably brittle in her first final, grew into the match. During an intense back-and-forth, Zhu repeatedly went after her experienced opponent and managed to swing momentum back in her favor with smart movement and sheer determination. While both players were dazzling on serve, this encounter took one hour, 45 minutes to reach its conclusion. When it did, it was the magnificent backhands and composure of Zhu that made her a first-time WTA tour winner. "I'm super happy to win my first title here in Hua Hin," beamed Zhu at the awards ceremony. "Lesia is a fighter, she never gives up, so I needed to give 100 percent and I needed to be more patient, especially towards the end. "I felt a little bit nervous, but I know it's normal, so I had to handle that, I had to attack when I'd have a chance, because she's not going to give this match to me. I'm super happy I did it... I want to thank my team, thank you for all the support and all the hard work this if for you." "Credit to my opponent," added Tsurenko. "Days like this I hope you have more and more just to play amazing as you played today... Today was an amazing final, so many people were watching, supporting both of us." It's been a blistering start to 2023 for Zhu, who shocked seven-times Grand Slam champion Venus Williams en route to reaching the quarterfinals of the Auckland Open in January. "I watched her play when I was a kid," an emotional Zhu told reporter after outclassing Venus. "Playing against her is such an honor. To be able to beat her is so special."Zhu followed the amazing run in New Zealand with another sensational performance in the Australia Open, where she reached her first ever round of 16 appearance at a Grand Slam with an incredible win over world No.6 Maria Sakkari. It was her first triumph against a top 10 player. She then pushed former world No.1 Victoria Azarenka to three sets and ultimately lost by a small margin in a two hours, 40 minutes marathon. "She never gave up, no matter what the score was," observed Azarenka in reference to Zhu. "With this tennis, she has to be in the top 20, because she played amazing. I'd never heard of her before, I know she's coming from China." Now, Zhu finally lived up to her promise with her maiden career title and stormed into the top 50 for the first time. If she keeps up this momentum, it won't be long before the whole world knows the Chinese ace's name.