Russia's response to threats against the country will not be limited to the use of armored vehicles, Russian President Vladimir Putin said Thursday. "Those who are trying to draw European countries into a new war against Russia clearly don't understand that a modern war with Russia will look completely different," the president said at an event dedicated to the 80th anniversary of the victory in the Battle of Stalingrad. Russia is not sending tanks to the borders of Western countries but has more than just armored vehicles to respond to threats, Russian news agency TASS reported, citing Putin's speech. Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Thursday clarified Putin's remarks that Russia has something to respond to the West's deliveries of new weapons to Ukraine and this can involve not only armor, Russian news agency TASS reported. "This means that Russia has the potential and as long as new weapons supplied by the collective West appear, Russia will use more fully its available potential to respond during the special military operation," TASS reported, citing Peskov. During the speech, Putin also said it was "unbelievable but true" that Russia was again being threatened by German Leopard tanks. The German government has approved the delivery of Leopard 1 tanks to Ukraine from industrial stocks and is in talks over purchasing back 15 Gepard tanks from Qatar to send to Kyiv, Sueddeutsche Zeitung reported. In late January, the U.S. and Germany promised to provide Ukraine with modern tanks, which not only aroused German citizens' protests and worries about more advanced weaponry but also opened the way for other countries to follow suit. From then on, countries including Spain and Poland are planning to send modern battle tanks to Ukraine. While U.S. President Joe Biden said "No" when he was asked if his administration was considering sending F-16 fighter jets to Ukraine, the U.S. is readying more than $2 billion worth of military aid for Ukraine that is expected to include longer-range rockets for the first time as well as other munitions and weapons, according to Reuters. On Friday, the EU and Ukraine will discuss financial and military assistance during a summit. Read more: Live updates: EU signals new sanctions on Russia by Feb. 24 (With input from agencies)