There was no fairytale ending to the League Cup campaign for Newcastle United. After the final whistle, Eddie Howe's exhausted players sank to their knees, reeling from yet another case of history repeating itself. Their 68-year wait for major silverware goes on. Despite the backing of an impassioned support, who packed Wembley with black and white flags on Sunday, Newcastle lost to the same opponents and by the same scoreline they had suffered in their last tournament final, the 1999 FA Cup.  In sharp contrast, tens of thousands of Manchester United scarves were raised to the skies in triumph as the Red Devil fans finally witnessed their beloved team claim their first title since 2017, putting an end to their longest trophy drought in 40 years. This wasn't a case of Newcastle being intimidated by a formidable football powerhouse or a special occasion. They got into menacing positions several times and their debutant goalkeeper Loris Karius, who is best remembered for a disastrous performance in the 2018 Champions League final, produced a couple of heroic saves. Nevertheless, United were assertive and incisive throughout the tie. Despite a slow start, Erik ten Hag's side comfortably controlled the tempo and literally killed off the game in a sensational five-minute blitz.  The brilliant Casemiro first broke the deadlock with a towering header, then Marcus Rashford conjured up the second with a shot that deflected off Sven Botman to fly past the helpless Karius. This final had Casemiro's fingerprints all over it. The Brazilian veteran channeled his years of trophy-winning experience with Real Madrid on this grand stage and spread his influence all over Wembley with his flawless movement, tackling and leadership.  According to stats provider Opta, it was Casemiro's third career goal in finals or title matches since he began playing in Europe. The 31-year-old previously netted in the 2016-17 Champions League final final vs Juventus and 2017 Super Cup vs Manchester United (both with Real Madrid). To their credit, Newcastle never gave up hope and attempted to fight back in the latter stages of the showdown, but United never remotely looked like blowing their two-goal cushion. They could have got even more if Bruno Fernandes and Rashford were not denied by Karius, who clearly relished the chance of redemption in the League Cup. At the end of the day, United's thrilling rejuvenation under Ten Hag has a tangible reward in the shape of a trophy. There is no doubt that the Dutch tactician, who showed off his dance moves with Lisandro Martinez and Antony on the pitch after the victory, has utterly transformed the English behemoth and instilled a winning mentality. The 53-year-old has taken a dismal club that recorded their worst-ever Premier League campaign last season to sitting in third place this term, and they remain in contention to add the FA Cup and Europa League to the first trophy of his United reign. "This team wants to make its own history and when this opportunity came I thought it was the right club for me and that I want to be a part of it," beamed Ten Hag during the post-game press conference. "I just want to win. We invested from the start of the season, with the staff. I want to say that they have done an incredible job and the staff and players are together. The players are really good collectively.  "Also, they challenge each other, which needs to happen. It's a good dressing room. When it's difficult they help each other out. It's great to see, and I think it's the best a manager can get." It's worth noting that Jose Mourinho also bagged the League Cup in his first season in charge of United and it hadn't set in motion a lasting success. But there is a genuine belief that Ten Hag could use this trophy as a springboard for sustained glory. "Silverware shows something, that you are on a good pathway. It is one cup and it is February but it shows we are in the right direction," observed Ten Hag when asked about the importance of the much-needed breakthrough. "This trophy means something. That is the feeling I get. We have won something, we have to celebrate that. But after that, you have to keep going. This cup can be the inspiration to give even more. "We have to continue on this pathway. Don't be satisfied."