The Tianshouyu bronze zun, an ancient wine vessel, and the Hanyang skull fossil – two national first-class cultural relics – are being exhibited at the Wuhan Economic & Technological Development Zone Museum, aiming to promote awareness of local archaeological history and culture. The two national relics were discovered in 1965 and 1997, respectively, in the Shamao Mountain area, where the Wuhan Economic & Technological Development Zone now stands. They serve as traces of human life from the Paleolithic Age around 10,000 to 50,000 years ago, filling a gap in the research of ancient anthropology in Wuhan, central China's Hubei Province. This is also the first time the two relics have been exhibited at the site where they were unearthed. The Tianshouyu bronze zun was used for rituals during the Western Zhou Dynasty (1046 B.C. – 771 B.C.). It stands 37.1 centimeters tall, 26.4 cm in diameter, and weighs 6.6 kilograms. Three diverse patterns were used to decorate the zun, reflecting the extraordinary craftsmanship of the time. It is seen as the second most important zun unearthed in China to date, following the He zun – an exquisitely detailed wine vessel dating back over 3,000 years. That featured at another exhibition at the Palace Museum last year that ran under the banner, "The Making of Zhongguo: Origins, Developments and Achievements of Chinese Civilization." The Tianshouyu bronze zun has already been displayed in the United States, Germany, India and other countries, and was served as a centerpiece at the Hubei Provincial Museum. The Hanyang skull fossil has also attracted considerable attention during the ongoing exhibition. According to archaeologists, the owner of the skull was likely 25 to 35 years old, and possibly a female of the late Homo sapiens period 10,000 to 50,000 years ago. The discovery of the skull fossil is hugely significant to Wuhan as it has expanded the city's history by at least 10,000 years, said the head of the Wuhan Economic & Technological Development Zone Museum. To ensure the two precious relics are displayed in a suitable and safe environment, the museum has installed systems for humidification, constant temperature, illumination and security. The exhibition started on Feb. 6 and is expected to run till the beginning of May.