Innovation and technology experts from around the world will head to China's Macao Special Administrative Region (SAR) in May as the region will host the third BEYOND International Technology Innovation Expo. As the boundaries of business expand from reality to the virtual world, the theme of the 2023 BEYOND Expo is Technology Redefined. The event is one of Asia's leading annual technology gatherings exploring the latest innovations and trends. This year, it will feature an exhibition area of 100,000 square meters. More than 1,000 companies, and 20,000 experts and industry leaders, from the Chinese mainland and beyond are expected to take part. The BEYOND Expo aims to bring together influential scientists, innovative entrepreneurs, and experts in social responsibility to exchange ideas through exhibitions and industry summits. The goal is to go beyond traditional technology exhibitions and become a top global platform for technological exchange and display. The Expo will focus on three key areas – healthcare, sustainability, and ConsumerTech. "Since the pandemic is gone and the border is open, definitely we're going to see more international companies, startups and entrepreneurs and of course media come to Macao this year. Also, I think this year's BEYOND Expo will be more professional. The three categories include healthcare, sustainability, and consumer tech. Each sector is going to have its own exhibition area, and also a stage," said Lu Gang, co-founder of BEYOND Expo. Macao's hotel, tourism and service industries are expected to benefit from the territory's hosting of the global event, which is seen as important for Macao's economic development. "Macao plays the role as the window and bridge to help mainland science and technology enterprises to go global. Besides, the Expo is an important practice for Macao to build an international technology exchange platform for communication and cooperation between global enterprises and the mainland based on Macao's development positioning of "One Center, One Platform, and One Base", said Zhu Kai, deputy director of bureau of planning and development at State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council. "I expect this year's Expo will be a bridge for the global technology community. By increasing the importance of Macao and neighboring Hengqin Island in the areas of global science and innovation ecology, it's expected that their technology industries will also develop," said Dai Jianye, director general of Economic and Technological Development Bureau of the Macao SAR.