The Golden State Warriors beat the Oklahoma City Thunder 141-114 at the Chase Center in San Francisco, California, on Monday, securing their second straight win. The Warriors' ace Stephen Curry will be sidelined for at least a month after he was diagnosed with partial tears to his superior tibiofibular ligaments and interosseous membrane in addition to a contusion to his lower leg. The team had been 7-8 without him this season before Monday, thus worrying people about their performance in the following games. Klay Thompson relieved the Warriors of those worries on Monday night by shooting 12-for-16 from downtown to score 42 points. It is the eighth time for him draining 10 or more 3-pointers in one game in his career, the second-most in NBA history, behind only Curry's 22. Today's Thunder are the youngest team in the league with an average age of 23.14 years old. None of their players were with the team during the 2015-16 season. The Thunder and the Warriors met in the Western Conference Finals that season. In Game 6 of that series, Thompson made 11 triples for the Warriors to win 108-101 and tie the series 3-3. While Thompson shot to kill from the perimeter, Jordan Poole made surprisingly good orchestrating contribution to the Warriors' comeback victory at home. He delivered 12 assists with only four turnovers and added five triples and 21 points to the team's total scoring. The Warriors overall shot 26-for-50 behind the arc to give the Thunder their worst loss this season. The efficient and productive scoring performance was not the only reason behind the Warriors' big win on Monday. Andrew Wiggins and Draymond Green shut down the Thunder's offense that could generate the 117.3 points per game, the fifth-most this season. Green had nine defensive rebounds, three steals and two blocks in addition to many ball-pressuring acts and passing, shooting deflections that made it difficult for the opponents to drive their sixth-fastest pace in today's NBA. Wiggins is not an omnipresent defender like Green, but his containing of Shai Gilgeous-Alexander (SGA) was integral to the Warriors win at home. SGA, who had averaged 31 points, the fourth-most in the league, missed 10 of his 16 field goals (FGs), mostly in the middle range. As a 1.98-meter-tall guard, SGA has remarkable dribbling skills and excellent control of his pace and body, which makes him unstoppable in penetration. However, he doesn't have the weapon that Wiggins dreads the most: speed. Wiggins can cover SGA with his 2.01-meter height while being able to deflect most of SGA's shots thanks to his 2.13-meter wingspan. This was only the fifth time SGA failed to surpass 20 points this season. Other games on Monday (away teams come first): Los Angeles Clippers 124-116 Brooklyn Nets The Clippers had six of their players reach double-digit points at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, New York City, on Monday. Paul George and Kawhi Leonard combined to score 53 points for their team to get their second consecutive win. In the fourth quarter that decided the final result, Leonard had nine points and four assists to keep the Clippers rolling. Despite the loss, the Nets should be glad to see the work done by Cam Thomas. The 21-year-old shot 15-for-29 from the field, including 7-for-11 at the 3-point line, to get 47 points, scoring 40+points in the second game in a row. The team couldn’t have kept the competition alive until the final minute without Thomas' great performance. San Antonio Spurs 104-128 Chicago Bulls The Bulls' two big men, Nikola Vucevic in the starting lineup and Andre Drummond off the bench, both scored double-doubles for the team to win at the United Center in Chicago, Illinois, on Monday. Vucevic had 22 points, 12 rebounds, four assists and two blocks; Drummond contributed 21 points, 15 rebounds, including three on the offensive glass and three steals. The Spurs suffered their ninth straight loss and continued to rank second-last in the Western Conference with a 14-40 record, the third-worst in the league. They have two players that interest many teams on the trade market: Jakob Poeltl and Josh Richardson. Poeltl got 14 points, nine rebounds, four assists and two blocks in Monday’s game; Richardson had 11 points, three assists and four steals. Milwaukee Bucks 127-108 Portland Trail Blazers Giannis Antetokounmpo's amazing 40+ points average scoring performance stopped at the Moda Center in Portland, Oregon, on Monday night. He had to battle foul trouble but still scored a double-double with 24 points, 13 rebounds plus eight assists. Brook Lopez was the Bucks' most efficient player on offense as he made all seven of his shots within the 3-point line to get 27 points and nine rebounds. The Trail Blazers suffered their second straight loss after Damian Lillard missed 11 of his FGs to get 28 points, much fewer than his average 36.4 points in the past month. In fact, the whole team underperformed from downtown, where they went 9-for-36. Boston Celtics 111-99 Detroit Pistons Cleveland Cavaliers 114-91 Washington Wizards Sacramento Kings 140-120 Houston Rockets Dallas Mavericks 124-111 Utah Jazz