Editor's note: Hannan Hussain is a foreign affairs commentator and author. He is a Fulbright recipient at the University of Maryland, the U.S., and a former assistant researcher at the Islamabad Policy Research Institute. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. On February 2, Chinese Foreign Minister Qin Gang held a telephonic conversation with his Japanese counterpart Yoshimasa Hayashi. During their exchange, Qin called on Japan to honor its commitments on major sovereign issues and expressed his hope that prudence will prevail in the delicate realm of military security. "The two sides should learn from history, stay true to their original aspiration, thwart disturbances, steer their relationship in the right direction, and work together to build China-Japan relations that meet the demands of the new era," said Qin. Given the value attached to managing differences and improving strategic communication at all levels, it is in Tokyo's immediate interests to put its definition of "constructive" relations into action on major issues. Consider Beijing's legitimate concerns over right-wing forces and their provocations on the Diaoyu Islands issue. Acting against them is in line with guidance derived from history. For instance, the Diaoyu Islands always constitutes an integral part of Chinese sovereignty, and there is a sustained expectation that Japan should act against forces that undermine its credible adherence. To this end, the China-Japan Treaty of Peace and Friendship – now approaching its 45th anniversary – should be prioritized as a useful template to achieve common ground. By reviewing the spirit of the treaty and its original consensus, both sides can work to fulfill obligations that reinforce the other as a friendly neighbor, not a perceived threat. Similarly, Thursday's exchange underlines the need for Japan to prioritize caution over the Taiwan question, given its own solemn commitment to Beijing and official positions against "two Chinas" or "one China, one Taiwan." Unfortunately, wrong signals to Taiwan separatists and blunt violations of the ironclad principle have reflected poorly on Japan's outlook on bilateral peace. An informed course correction is thus necessary to uphold reciprocity in relations, given Beijing's firm adherence to the 1972 China-Japan Joint Communique which treats "mutual respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity" as a binding principle. Japan's adherence to what Qin described as "strategic independence" remains central to keeping their historic fundamentals at the forefront of relations. It is a gateway to easing tensions in Asia and jointly promoting the region's "sound development." Both China and Japan are better positioned to achieve their development and prosperity in the presence of each other's support. Hayashi's brief recognition of this understanding brings to memory several Sino-Japanese economic interdependencies and their complimentary growth potential. Japan needs to uphold market principles and ensure that a spirit of freedom marks its "economic, trade and scientific cooperation" with China. These inputs are chief to informing Japan's coexistence with China's technological advancements, as opposed to misconstruing them as a threat. In Hayashi's own telling, both sides cannot embrace their developmental progress without adequate backing, making it critical for Tokyo to embrace an "objective and rational perception" of China. It is important to note that such recalibration of perception has served relations well for decades. Now, in the lead-up to the 45th anniversary of their Peace and Friendship Treaty, vast development potential cannot materialize in isolation from historic drivers. Ultimately, a principled call for Japan to honor its solemn commitments and come good on major issues presents a litmus test for Japan's strategic independence towards China. Tangible efforts for overcoming political obstacles must prevail if both sides are to stay true to their original aspiration. In that regard, cooperative diplomacy has been a mainstay in relations, and it shouldn't be taken for granted at present. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)