Chinese Foreign Minister Qin Gang Monday met with visiting Singaporean Foreign Minister Vivian Balakrishnan and the two sides agreed to strengthen the docking of the two countries' development strategies and elevate bilateral cooperation to higher levels. Calling Singapore an important cooperative partner of China that has long been deeply involved in China's reform, opening-up and development process, Qin stressed China attaches great importance to China-Singapore relations as well as Singapore's unique role in regional and international affairs. He called for jointly implementing the important consensus between the two leaders and promoting the new development of China-Singapore relations. As both two countries are facing important opportunities for pushing forward modernization, Qin said the Chinese side is willing to conduct mutual learning and win-win cooperation with Singapore. He also urged efforts to deeply dovetail with each other's development strategies, jointly build the Belt and Road with high quality and to enhance the integration, competitiveness and dynamism of cooperation. For his part, Balakrishnan pointed out Singapore and China have got through tough time together since the outbreak of the COVID-19, manifesting the spirit of friendship and partnership with practical actions. He added two sides have deepened mutual trust and smoothly promote practical cooperation. Balakrishnan also said Singapore is glad to see China's rapid recovery from the pandemic and is looking forward to deepen cooperation between the two countries in various fields. Noting the current international situation is challenging and worrisome, the Singaporean foreign minister said his country will continue to adhere to multilateralism, advocate multiculturalism, safeguard free trade and maintain the stability and smooth flow of the production and supply chain. He vowed to work with the Chinese side to protect and promote peace and prosperity. According to a statement released by the Chinese Foreign Ministry, the two sides said they will prepare for the next phase of high-level exchanges, give full play to the role of bilateral cooperation mechanisms, and promote the construction of key cooperation projects. They also agreed to speed up the full resumption of direct flights to better facilitate people-to-people exchanges between the two countries. The two sides stressed that they will adhere to an ASEAN-centric, open and inclusive regional cooperation structure. Qin stressed that China firmly supports the leading role of ASEAN and is willing to keep East Asian cooperation in the right direction and deepen pragmatic cooperation with ASEAN so as to promote the joint building of a peaceful, safe and secure, prosperous, beautiful and amicable home. China is willing to work with ASEAN countries to fully and effectively implement the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea and jointly maintain peace and stability in the South China Sea, Qin added.