A Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) side missing the injured Lionel Messi and Kylian Mbappe went down to a 3-1 defeat at Monaco in Ligue 1 on Saturday, their second defeat in four days. All the goals came in the first half at the Louis II stadium, with Aleksandr Golovin putting Monaco ahead inside four minutes and Wissam Ben Yedder doubling the home side's lead. The 16-year-old Warren Zaire-Emery pulled one back for PSG, but Ben Yedder scored his second of the game, and 19th of the season, to make it 3-1 in first-half stoppage time. PSG will be without Mbappe, their top scorer, due to a thigh injury for the clash with Bayern Munich at the Parc des Princes on Tuesday, and coach Christophe Galtier must hope that Messi recovers in time from the hamstring complaint that prevented him from traveling to the principality. Bayern strung three wins together for the first time since November, beating Bochum 3-0 at home in the Bundesliga on Saturday ahead of next week's Champions League clash with PSG. However, surprise challengers Union Berlin stayed right on Bayern's heels, winning 2-1 away at RB Leipzig to come within one point of the Bavarians in Saturday's late game. In the Premier League, Arsenal's new signing Leandro Trossard scored his first goal for the league leaders, but they were left frustrated as Ivan Toney secured a deserved 1-1 draw for Brentford on Saturday. The Belgian forward replaced Gabriel Martinelli just past the hour mark with his side struggling and made an almost immediate impact on converting a low cross by Bukayo Saka. "Yeah, of course, it's nice to have the goal, as it gets me going, but after that, it's disappointing they got the equalizer," said former Brighton and Hove Albion player Trossard. "It's a tough one to take. We did everything well. To score against Brentford isn't easy," he added. Tottenham Hotspur's hopes of securing a Premier League top-four finish suffered another blow after being thrashed 4-1 at rampant Leicester City despite taking the lead on Saturday. The Spurs carved out an early advantage at the King Power Stadium through Rodrigo Bentancur's close-range finish. However, the hosts quickly turned the match on its head, with Nampalys Mendy hammering home an equalizer in the 23rd minute before James Maddison's second goal in as many games completed the turnaround two minutes later. Nigerian striker Kelechi Iheanacho added a third in first-half stoppage time to extend Leicester's lead, with the timing of that strike seemingly killing off the Spurs' hope of getting anything from the contest. The visitors offered very little in attack after the break, with Harvey Barnes adding a fine fourth nine minutes from time, securing Leicester a third straight win in all competitions to move them up to 13th in the table on 24 points from 22 games. Chelsea were held to a 1-1 draw at West Ham United on Saturday as Joao Felix's opener was canceled out by ex-Blues defender Emerson Palmieri, leaving Graham Potter's expensively assembled team still a long way from a top-four spot. Felix, returning to the team after the on-loan Portuguese winger was sent off in his Chelsea debut last month, side-footed home in the 16th minute after a pinpoint pass by British record signing Enzo Fernandez, one of Stamford Bridge's many new faces. The draw meant Chelsea have won only one of their last seven league games and no away games since October. They stayed ninth in the table, nine points behind fourth-placed Newcastle, who have played a game less. Chelsea coach Potter said he saw positives in the performance of his players, especially in the first half when the Blues, as well as scoring through Felix, had the ball in the back of the net twice, but both were ruled offside. (With input from agencies)