The Los Angeles Lakers defeated the Golden State Warriors 109-103 at Chase Center in San Francisco, California, on Saturday, ending their three-game losing streak. LeBron James sat out the second game in a row due to ankle injury, but the purple and gold had three of the players they had acquired before the NBA trade deadline – D'Angelo Russell, Jarred Vanderbilt and Malik Beasley – play in Saturday's game. Vanderbilt was the best-performing among the three. Having scored 12 points, eight rebounds and four assists in less than 17 minutes off the bench, he provided a type of energy that the team hasn't seen for a long time. With his 2.06-meter height, incredible athleticism and great defensive passion, Vanderbilt was everywhere on the court, deflecting as many shots and passes as possible while constantly appearing in the paint to protect the rim and rebounds. Vanderbilt lacks the shooting range on the offensive end, but he can make it up with his solid finishing ability, smart cuttings and aggressive going for offensive rebounds. If he continues to play like this, he will definitely deserve a bigger role on the Lakers' rotations and likely a spot in their clutch-time squad. Russell paired with Dennis Schroder in the purple and gold's starting lineup on Saturday night. He had 15 points, five rebounds and six assists. Beasley was with the backup unit and shot six triples as the team expected him to. Unfortunately, he didn't make any of them. Schroder made the biggest offensive contributions for the Lakers by scoring team-high 26 points and draining three 3-pointers, the most on their roster. His aggressiveness, which earned him 11 free throws, was integral to the team's victory on the road. The Lakers were on an unfavorable situation in the first half partly because Anthony Davis seemed depressed on both ends. He failed to dominate Kevon Looney and Draymond Green as the Lakers had expected him to. He also wasn't fast enough in offering help in defense, watching the Warriors score a lot of easy points in the paint. The good news for the Lakers was that Davis bounced back in the final quarter. He got six points, six rebounds and two blocks in this period alone, shutting down the opponents' efforts to come back over and over again, especially in the final two minutes. The Warriors suffered their second loss in a row. The team's poor 3-point shooting of 12-for-44 only reflected a part of their struggling offense. Though they delivered 31 assists in Saturday's game, the Warriors had no solution to the Lakers' elevated defensive intensity during the clutch time in the fourth quarter. Instead of changing the opponents' defense with individual attack threat, the Warriors kept moving the ball in a meaningless way before taking tough shots and missing them. Other games on Saturday (away teams come first): Philadelphia 76ers 101-98 Brooklyn Nets Having gone through a big reshuffle of their lineup, the Brooklyn Nets led the 76ers by six points (82-76) after the first three quarters at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, New York City, on Saturday. They couldn't stop Joel Embiid and James Harden from getting 51 points, but the Nets nearly kept the rest of the 76ers from doing any decent offensive work. Harden had eight points and four assists in the fourth quarter, getting involved in over half of the 76ers' 25 points in this period. The two free throws he made in the final moment extended their lead from one to three points. Though Spencer Dinwiddie then made a deep 3-pointer to tie the score for the Nets, the ball didn't fly off his fingertips before the buzzer sounded. Denver Nuggets 119-105 Charlotte Hornets Nikola Jokic scored his 20th triple-double this season after dropping 30 points, 16 rebounds and 10 assists at the Spectrum Center in Charlotte, North Carolina, on Saturday. His dominant performance was why the Nuggets extended their winning streak to 10 games. Another six Besides Jokic, another six of the team's players reached double-digit points. LaMelo Ball was one rebound away from getting a triple-double after scoring 18 points and 12 assists. He took 10 of the 16 shots in this game behind the arc, but only made three of them. Despite that, Ball was not the worst 3-point shooting Hornet on Saturday night. P.J. Washington (1-for-5), Gordon Hayward (1-for-4) and Terry Rozier III (1-for-7) all did worse than him on this front. Dallas Mavericks 128-133 Sacramento Kings De'Aaron Fox proved to the NBA why it was a mistake not to select him into the All-Star Game by leading the Kings to secure a comeback win at the Golden 1 Center in Sacramento, California, on Saturday. He scored 26 of his 36 points in the fourth quarter and overtime, outscoring Kyrie Irving and Luka Doncic in combination during the same period. In his first game pairing with Irving, Doncic didn't perform as well as he has this season. Having rested four games, Doncic seemed rusty and lacked coordination with the rest of the team. He missed seven of nine triples and committed six turnovers. Irving was willing to leave the stage for Doncic and only began to take over late in the fourth quarter when Doncic was too tired to do the job. Unfortunately, the Mavericks met an explosive Fox. Miami Heat 107-103 Orlando Magic Indiana Pacers 113-127 Washington Wizards San Antonio Spurs 106-125 Atlanta Hawks Utah Jazz 120-126 New York Knicks Chicago Bulls 89-97 Cleveland Cavaliers