An article by Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, on the five paths that the Party and the Chinese people must take in the new era, will be published Wednesday. The article by Xi, also Chinese president and chairman of the Central Military Commission, will be published in this year's fifth issue of the Qiushi Journal, a flagship magazine of the CPC Central Committee. Upholding the Party's overall leadership is the path China must take to uphold and develop socialism with Chinese characteristics, the article says. By resolutely upholding the Party's overall leadership, the authority of the Central Committee and its centralized, unified leadership, the Party and the country will have the political cohesion and confidence in their development to form a mighty force to innovate on the basis of what has worked in the past and overcome all difficulties with one heart and one mind, according to the article. It will also ensure the Party becomes a pillar that the Chinese people can lean on in times of difficulty. The article points out that building socialism with Chinese characteristics is the path that must be taken to realize the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation, and as long as the Party and the Chinese people remain committed to this path, the people's aspirations for a better life and achieve common prosperity for all will be met. Noting that striving for unity is the path the Chinese people must take to create great historic achievements, the article says as long as the Chinese people stay unity and solidarity, have the courage and ability to carry on their fight under the leadership of the Party, China will surely overcome all difficulties and challenges on the road ahead and continue to create new miraculous achievements that amaze the world. The article stresses that implementing the new development philosophy is the path China must take to grow stronger in the new era. By fully and faithfully implementing the new development philosophy, accelerating its efforts to create a new development pattern to promote high-quality development and achieve sci-tech self-reliance and self-strengthening, China can continuously improve the competitiveness and sustainability of its development, seize the initiative and win the future in the increasingly fierce international competition, says the article. Exercising full and rigorous self-governance is the path the Party must take to maintain its vigor and pass new tests on the road ahead, the article says, stressing China's success hinges on the Party, so the Party must practice strict self-governance in every respect. In terms of self-governance, the article points out that the Party should carry forward its great founding spirit, stay committed to its founding mission, bravely engage in self-reform, consistently remove all elements that would harm the Party's advanced nature and integrity, and eliminate any viruses that would erode its health. Only by these efforts, can the Party ensure that its essence, color, and character are preserved, according to the article. (Cover: An aerial view of Beijing, China. /CFP)