Editor's note: Seymur Mammadov is the director of the international expert club EurAsiaAz and editor-in-chief of Azerbaijan news agency Baku Tribune. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. The devastating earthquake in Türkiye and Syria shocked the whole world. Experts qualify what happened as the most serious natural disaster in almost a century for these countries. The death toll in Türkiye alone has approached over 17,000, and the number of wounded has exceeded 70,000. And these are not final numbers. Survivors continue to be found among the ruins, and thousands of rescuers and doctors from dozens of countries are working in disaster areas, including from the People's Republic of China. China was one of the first to respond to the misfortune that befell the Turkish and Syrian peoples. On February 8, a team of Chinese rescuers began their duties in the Turkish province of Hatay. This is one of the provinces of Türkiye most affected by the devastating earthquake, and one of those places that recorded the most victims and destruction. To work here requires very serious professional skills. The group of 82 people included employees of the fire and rescue service, the center for emergency search and rescue operations during earthquakes, as well as doctors. All Chinese rescuers working in Hatay are professionals who have taken part in many rescue operations. That is, these are people who have seen a lot and saved many lives. The team uses state-of-the-art rescue equipment and is ready to overcome the difficulties associated with a large area of destruction, frost and ongoing aftershocks. Two private rescue teams, also professional and equipped with the most advanced equipment, left for Türkiye from China in these three days. In addition, Chinese volunteers are also sent to Türkiye to join the rescue operations. That is, China has taken the issue of helping the Turkish people very seriously and responsibly. The Chinese do nothing without a serious approach to success. Without such an approach, efforts are meaningless. Chinese rescuers are already saving lives in the Turkish province of Hatay. For example, it is reported that a pregnant woman was rescued from a concrete captivity by a Chinese team. The woman was found by Turkish rescuers under the rubble of an eight-story building in the city of Antakya, located in Hatay province. Seeing that they could not cope with the situation, the Turkish rescuers contacted their Chinese colleagues, and they immediately arrived at the scene. The specialists of the two countries jointly drew up a rescue plan, and then for several hours they made their way to the victim. The operation was completed successfully, with the combined efforts of the two sides. In the very first hours after the earthquake, China kept a close eye on the event. On February 6, Chinese President Xi Jinping sent telegrams of condolences to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Besides, the topic of the earthquake is one of the main topics at briefings at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China. Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Mao Ning told reporters that China is closely monitoring the situation and will continue to provide support and assistance to the best of its ability and in light of Türkiye's needs. According to her, the Chinese side will do its best to help both countries. China has provided $5.9 million in emergency humanitarian aid to Türkiye and Syria. Not only during natural disasters but also in other situations, China spares no effort to help other countries. This was especially evident during the pandemic. In the first few months of the pandemic, China provided humanitarian and material assistance to 150 states and international organizations. And this, despite the fact, that the country itself was once experiencing big problems. During the COVID-19 pandemic, China, unlike the large advanced countries, helped others with what was needed just at that time. For example, the United States allocated funds to one country or another to improve the medical infrastructure, that is, a process that would take many years. Beijing, on the other hand, chose a wiser and more effective tactic – it helped the countries of Southeast Asia with medical equipment, medical means of protection and treatment. China has provided Southeast Asian countries with millions of masks, respirators, test kits, and personal protective equipment. It was Chinese aid that helped many low-income countries cope with the problem. China's neighbors can always count on China's help. Last fall, China provided financial assistance to Tajikistan worth $100,000, which was intended for residents of the border areas who suffered during the conflict with Kyrgyzstan. Ukraine has repeatedly received humanitarian aid from China. The first batch of aid was transferred to Ukraine in March 2022. In parallel, at the beginning of winter, China not only helped the country itself, but also called on the international community to increase assistance to the Ukrainian people. Foreign aid is an integral part of China's foreign policy strategy. This assistance is provided in accordance with the moral principles that are embedded in the mentality of the Chinese people and provided at the behest of their heart. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)