President of the 77th United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) Csaba Korosi praised China's work on promoting global sustainable development during his visit to the country, saying the UN hopes to work with China to an even greater extent to address global issues. The issues involve the UN's 2030 sustainable development goals that cover green development, poverty reduction to clean waters for all. Korosi visited the China Meteorological Administration (CMA) on Friday and visited sectors including the National Meteorological Center, National Climate Center, National Satellite Meteorological Center, and National Meteorological Information Center. Korosi said during a meeting that CMA has played a vital role in advancing global sustainable development, particularly in the fields of climate change risk management, early warning, and other meteorological services for water resource management and ecological protection. He also expressed hope that CMA would continue to actively participate in multilateral cooperation within the UN framework, and further contribute to global sustainable development. Chen Zhenlin, deputy director of CMA, said the administration would continue to cooperate internationally in a range of areas from disaster prevention and mitigation to climate risk management, and that it will continue to work towards the UN sustainable development goals. To cope with climate change, CMA has built a comprehensive monitoring, forecasting, assessment and service system. It has seven atmospheric background observation stations and 27 national climate observatories. The Fengyun meteorological satellites provide monitoring and emergency services for 126 countries and regions. On Thursday, Korosi visited the International Research Center of Big Data for Sustainable Development Goals (CBAS) in Beijing. The center, founded in 2021, uses and features big data in serving the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. While there, Chinese scientists showed how data mining, sharing, and analyzing could make a difference in speeding up the achievement of the UN's sustainability goals. Korosi said the center's accomplishments are encouraging, and the solutions provided by the center are "effective" approaches to achieving sustainable development goals. The big-data center in Beijing is part of China's ongoing efforts in using science and technology to fuel sustainable development. Hou Jianguo, president of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), said in the meeting with Korosi that CAS has always worked to address key global issues, including those from the 2030 agenda, from eco-protection, coping with climate change to the protection of water resources, and it is ready to continue to contribute to the implementation of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Global Development Initiatives.