"Although the piano keys come in black and white, the music it produces is full of color." Chinese pianist Tian Jiaxin explores innovative interpretations and crossover collaborations with traditional Chinese music, with the hope of bringing the music of the East to the Western world through the piano, which is considered the king of Western musical instruments. Tian attended regular primary and middle school instead of studying at a music conservatory at a young age. This gave her more time to absorb China's rich cultural legacy and understand the bigger picture later in her pursuit of a career as a professional pianist. "There's so much to grasp when interpreting a piece, for instance: literature, poetry and history. What we're conveying is not merely the notes, but the cultural connotations behind the music, which is the most important element," Tian shared with CGTN. As a Chinese pianist, Tian is looking to add more depth to her performances, emphasizing the contrast between Eastern and Western cultures when playing works of Western classical music. "No matter which country I am performing in, I always include Chinese music in my program. With Western pieces, I hope to show the world that a female musician from China can interpret the music that they are familiar with and love." Tian says that she believes her mission is to make China heard on a wider stage. Tian is particularly fond of the Yellow River Piano Concerto and finds it creates a perfect harmony between Eastern and Western music. Tian thinks the Yellow River Piano Concerto is also an ode to the spirit of the Chinese nation, as it features distinctive artistic and folk elements unique to the country. "When I interpret this concerto, I hope to bring a more feminine touch to the work, depicting the Yellow River, the mother river of Chinese civilization, so that the audience can feel the subtle nuances underneath this magnificent piece," Tian said. Tian attended the 2022 Lantern Festival Folk Opera Gala of China Media Group. At the gala, her piano performance in combination with other genres like Peking Opera gave her new inspiration. "Most people may think that classical music is hard to understand. And that's why I hope through my collaboration with other artists and our creative interpretations, people can feel that classical music is not the high-brow art they used to think of. At the same time, I also hope that more people will fall in love with Chinese music and culture," Tian told CGTN. Tian believes that music is constantly evolving over time and that music from different eras has its own unique meaning. "From my years of touring around the world, I've found that people's perception of Chinese music is often limited to certain pieces like 'Jasmine Flower' and the 'Yellow River Piano Concerto,'" Tian said. "However, there are so many great pieces of Chinese music that are unknown outside of China. So, in my recitals, I always try to feature both the time-honored classics of Chinese music and the newly created pieces," she added. When playing more traditional Chinese pieces, Tian likes to add a little twist to help people better understand the works. "In my tour across the country last year, I combined Chinese poetry with the work Xiyangxiaogu, which was inspired by the famous poem 'The Moon over the River on a Spring Night.' And with 'Cowherd's Flute,' my interpretation was accompanied by an ink-wash style animation. I think innovative presentations add more layers to these classic works." "Chinese music has the magic to resonate with the audience and convey the rich and profound cultural legacy of Chinese civilization," Tian said, adding that she hoped that the world would discover the unique approach of this new generation of Chinese artists.