The Sacramento Kings edged the Los Angeles Clippers 176-175 in double overtimes (OTs) at Crypto.com Arena in Los Angeles, California, on Friday, securing their second straight win in back-to-back competitions. It is the fourth time in NBA history for both teams to score 160+ points in one game. De'Aaron Fox and Malik Monk both had over 40 points, combining to get 87 points and 18 assists for the Kings after shooting 32-for-51 from the field. Monk had 30 points in the fourth quarter and the two OTs. Fox got 26 points, eight assists and four steals in the second half and the two OTs. Domantas Sabonis was called the fourth personal foul on him in the second quarter and the fifth one in the third period. However, he still managed to play over 31 minutes for the Kings to contribute a double-double of 20 points, 10 rebounds and four assists before he was fouled out in the first OT. The Kings began to trail 27-28 at 4:15 in the first quarter and stayed down until 0:36 in the second OT. One of their keys to such a great comeback win was the aggressive defense that resulted in 18 steals for themselves and 25 turnovers by the Clippers. The Kings turned these turnovers into 41 fast break points. They also led 88-48 in points in the paint. Fox, Monk, Sabonis and Keegan Murray all scored in double digits in the restricted area. The Clippers made record 26 triples at home in Friday's game and it took them only 46 attempts to do so. Kawhi Leonard, Paul George, Norman Powell and Nicolas Batum combined to go 21-for-35 from downtown. Leonard made 16 of his 22 field goals (FGs) to get season-high 44 points. It is also his highest score since he joined the Clippers in 2019 summer. Nonetheless, as the Kings began to double-team Leonard resolutely after the third quarter. As a result, he only took seven shots in the rest of the game and missed four of them to get six points. George took over his load to score 14 of his 34 points in the fourth period, but he also committed three turnovers in less than two minutes. His sloppy protection of the ball plus Powell's offensive foul enabled the Kings to cut a 14-point deficit (145-131) to one (147-146) in a surprisingly short period of time. Russell Westbrook made his first appearance for the Clippers on Friday night. Coach Tyronn Lue not only put him in the starting lineup, Westbrook was also on the court during the clutch time in the fourth quarter, the first and second OTs before he was fouled out. Despite the loss, Westbrook did nearly everything the Clippers wanted from him. Having shot 7-for-13 from the field, he dropped a double-double of 17 points and 14 assists. He only shot four jumpers, all behind the arc. Every of the rest of his attempts happened around the paint. He and Powell combined to generate over half of the Clippers' fast break points. Thanks to the Clippers' remarkable spacing, Westbrook found his sharp penetration back, which, in addition to his court vision and passing ability, enabled the team to bring a 3-pointer storm to Crypto.com Arena on Friday night. The seven turnovers he committed are irritating, but the growing chemistry between him and the team should fix it as long as Westbrook continues to play like this. Other games on Friday (away teams come first): New York Knicks 115-109 Washington Wizards Julius Randle made seven triples to score 46 points for the Knicks to pocket their fourth consecutive win at Capital One Arena in Washington, D.C. on Friday. Four of his teammates reached double-digit points. Mitchell Robinson came back after missing 14 games in a row and contributed a double-double of 10 points and 12 rebounds, including four on the offensive glass. On the Wizards' side, Kyle Kuzma and Kristaps Porzingis combined to score 46 points to carry the team's offense while their franchise guard Bradley Beal struggled to get only 16 points. They had a good start with a 38-27 run in the first quarter, but failed to carry it along in the rest of the game. Miami Heat 99-128 Milwaukee Bucks Giannis Antetokounmpo played less than seven minutes at the Fiserv Forum in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, on Friday, before quitting it due to a right knee injury. However, the Bucks didn't collapse with this setback. Instead, the team had six of their players score in double digits and went 19-for-46 at the 3-point line, turning this competition a long-gone conclusion after three quarters. Kevin Love made his debut for the Heat as a starter, but his performance was a disappointment as he missed all four shots to get only eight rebounds and four assists. Fairly speaking, Love shouldn't bear all the criticism for the loss during which the whole team missed 31 of their 40 triples. Charlotte Hornets 121-113 Minnesota Timberwolves The Hornets extended their winning streak to three games after LaMelo Ball went 11-for-21 in FGs to drop 32 points, 10 rebounds and eight assists at the Target Center in Minneapolis, Minnesota, on Friday. Gordon Hayward and P.J. Washington made good offensive contributions as well by combining to score 47 points and 21 rebounds. Having suffered their second straight loss, the Timberwolves are currently eighth in the Western Conference between the New Orleans Pelicans and the Golden State Warriors. All three teams share the same winning percentage of .500. The Timberwolves need to at least stay there before Karl-Anthony Towns comes back because they have one of the most difficult schedules ahead. Cleveland Cavaliers 119-136 Atlanta Hawks Brooklyn Nets 87-131 Chicago Bulls Oklahoma City Thunder 115-124 Phoenix Suns Houston Rockets 101-116 Golden State Warriors