Editor's note: Mariam Shah is an Islamabad-based independent researcher in the field of conflict studies and military psychology. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. Talks about peace mediation and dialogue surfaced again to address Russia-Ukraine conflict. But we saw two powers with two different aspirations: the U.S. cuffed new sanctions on Russia while China released a peace plan to utilize all efforts to resolve the conflict. Recently, the U.S. imposed a fresh set of sanctions on more than 200 individuals and entities, including both Russian and third-country actors across Europe, Asia, and the Middle East while offering new military aid to Ukraine. Moreover, European Union has also confirmed the approval of its 10th round of sanctions against Russia. The unilateral sanctions will further strain the efforts to create a path for a ceasefire and constructive dialogue. These sanctions may also fan the flames of politically oriented tensions and escalate the conflict, which will benefit no one. The U.S. and the EU seem absorbed in sanctioning Russia and arming Ukraine rather than diverting their energies toward constructive dialogue and mediation. While the West seems least interested in talking about peace, we have witnessed that China is always ready to contribute positively to promoting a solution to the Ukraine crisis, even though it is not a party to the conflict in any manner. China released a position paper titled "China's Position on the Political Settlement of the Ukraine Crisis" on the first anniversary of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, detailing China's position in 12 points. This document demonstrates China's sincerity and goodwill in actively pursuing peace discussions. Through this peace plan, China developed a specific and meaningful intervention through diplomatic means, cementing China's role as a much-needed peacemaker in the future. China meticulously outlined a path toward peace and stability in the region, emphasizing the importance of respecting the sovereignty of all countries and upholding universally recognized international law. The 12-point peace plan focused on maintaining international law and respecting the sovereignty of all nations, regardless of their size, strength, or wealth, abandoning the Cold War mentality and promoting common, comprehensive, cooperative, and sustainable security, respecting the legitimate security interests and concerns of all countries and preventing bloc confrontation. From political to security, economic to legal, the position paper covers almost all the essential aspects of the ongoing conflict and the resultant crisis. It also talked about halting hostilities and exercising restraint to avoid crisis escalation and supporting Russia and Ukraine in working towards de-escalation and resuming direct dialogue as soon as possible to reach a comprehensive ceasefire. A prime focus was resuming peace talks, promoting political settlement through dialogue and negotiation, encouraging efforts that facilitate the peaceful settlement of the crisis, and creating conditions and platforms for the resumption of the talks. Moreover, it also highlighted the imperative to resolve the humanitarian crisis, protecting civilians by setting up humanitarian corridors for their safe evacuation. Increasing humanitarian assistance to relevant areas and improving and providing unimpeded humanitarian access to prevent a more significant humanitarian crisis should is also a paramount concern. Another essential aspect that has been touched upon is the protection of civilians and prisoners of war by strictly abiding by international humanitarian law and respecting the fundamental rights of prisoners of war. The peace plan categorically talked about the safety of nuclear power plants by keeping nuclear power plants safe and opposing armed attacks against nuclear power plants or other peaceful nuclear facilities. Moreover, China also opposes the threat or use of nuclear weapons, preventing nuclear proliferation and chemical and biological weapons by any country under any circumstances. The peace plan also calls for stopping the abuse of unilateral sanctions and promoting post-conflict reconstruction by supporting measures to reconstruct conflict zones. Since this ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine started, immense suffering and instability have occurred. Through this peace plan, China is trying to make the world realize that conflict and war benefit no one. For any conflict, the ultimate is to resort to dialogue and negotiation as they are the only viable solutions to long-lasting peace. The world powers must realize the importance of politically oriented solutions to avoid further escalation. Moreover, all efforts must be made to support Russia and Ukraine in resuming direct dialogue and ultimately reaching a comprehensive ceasefire. Recently, China released a Global Security Initiative Concept Paper, and now the peace plan, which reflects China's commitment to global governance and cooperation. The international community should welcome this peace initiative put forth by China, as it has realized its role in leading a constructive role through the peace debate by encouraging a peaceful settlement for this crucial conflict. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)