After Chelsea outspent every other club during the European football 2022-23 winter transfer window with an investment of 329.5 million euros (about $356.6 million), the managers of their long-time rivals, Jurgen Klopp of Liverpool and Pep Guardiola of Manchester City, both said they were surprised at the team's act. "I say nothing without my lawyer. I don't understand this part of the business but it's a big number," Klopp said at a press conference on Friday. "They are all really good players so congratulations. I don't understand how it's possible, but it's not for me to explain how it works." Liverpool had a disappointing start in the 2022-23 Premier League season and their struggle continues. They rank 10th on the standings table with 29 points after 19 games. "It's none of my business. It's a surprise because it's not a club state," Guardiola said of Chelsea's big spendings. "What I can control is the fact we won 11 titles in the last five years being one of the five or six net spend teams in the league. This is all I'm concerned about what we've done so far in this time." As the reigning Premier League champions, City are currently five points behind the leaders Arsenal after playing one more game than the "Gunners." On one hand, they are not ready to deal with the sudden rise of Arsenal; moreover, many of City's players seem to have lost their hunger for the Premier League title, which they have won many times in recent years, and are instead focused on winning their first UEFA Champions League trophy. Chelsea paid Benfica 120 million euros (about $129.9 million), a new input record in the Premier League, to bring rising Argentine star Enzo Fernandez to Stamford Bridge. In his first game on Friday against Fulham, "The Blues" exchanged nothing with the opponents at home to get a draw. "Very good, considering he's been in the country not very long," Chelsea's manager Graham Potter spoke highly of Fernandez's performance to Sky Sports. "He doesn't know us, we don't know him so well but I think you can see flashes of his quality and personality. He'll get better and better." Potter added that he is confident in the club's ability to qualify for the UEFA Champions League next season. In order to do that, they need to finish this season within top four in the Premier League. They are currently ninth on the standings table and nine points away from the fourth Manchester United, who have played one fewer game than Chelsea.