All four prototypes of China's AG600M aircraft, a full-configuration firefighting model belonging to the AG600 large amphibious aircraft family, have kicked off test missions, the aircraft developer announced Saturday. The fourth AG600M firefighting aircraft prototype successfully completed its maiden flight on Saturday in Zhuhai in south China's Guangdong Province, said the Aviation Industry Corporation of China (AVIC), the country's leading plane-maker. During the 17-minute flight, the aircraft carried out a series of planned tests. The aircraft demonstrated excellent performance, with its all systems operating stably. So far, the AVIC has produced a total of four AG600M aircraft prototypes, which are now carrying out related flight tests at various sites across the country. Codenamed Kunlong, or "water dragon" in Chinese, the AG600 aircraft family has been developed as vital aeronautical equipment to strengthen China's emergency rescue capabilities. It can be used in combating forest fires, maritime search and rescue, and other critical missions. A member of the AG600 aircraft family, the AG600M is specifically designed to combat forest fires. Its maximum take-off weight is 60 tonnes, with capacity for carrying up to 12 tonnes of water. It can conduct low-altitude flying at low speed, enabling it to drop water accurately on fire sites. The year 2023 is key for the aircraft's development. A series of flight and ground test missions are scheduled this year to ensure that the AG600M is capable of carrying out firefighting missions. These tests will be carried out to ensure progress toward securing airworthiness certification, the AVIC said. The AG600M firefighting-specialized aircraft will obtain the certificate in 2024 and start its initial small-batch deliveries in 2025, said the AVIC. It will also push forward the rescue-specialized model of the AG600 aircraft family to obtain the type certificate in 2025. Read more: China's AG600M large amphibious aircraft secures new order China's third AG600M large amphibious aircraft undertakes test mission