China once again showed its commitment to solving regional conflicts through political dialogue and consultation by releasing two official papers as the first anniversary of the Russia-Ukraine conflict comes. One of them, titled The Global Security Initiative Concept Paper, was released on Tuesday. And the other one, titled China's Position on Political Settlement of Ukraine Crisis, was released on Friday – the day marking the first anniversary of the Russia-Ukraine conflict. Wang Yi, director of the Office of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, made an advance announcement of both reports when he delivered a keynote speech at the 59th Munich Security Conference in Germany on Saturday. Both papers show China will continue to stand on the side of peace and dialogue and provide a more systematic approach and more practical measures to address global security challenges, Wang said. While the concept paper on the Global Security Initiative listed 20 key cooperation areas to show a clear road map to achieve the version of global security, the paper stating China's position on the political settlement of the Ukraine crisis provided 12 principles including respecting the sovereignty of all countries, ceasing hostilities and resuming peace talks to call for jointed efforts worldwide to solve the year-long crisis. Gao Fei, vice president of China Foreign Affairs University, said the concept paper specifically introduced some important platforms, including UN agencies and other international organizations to promote the implementation of the Global Security Initiative, thus translating the initiative into actions. Echoing Gao, Xu Bu, president of the China Institute of International Studies, said the concept paper discusses key cooperation areas and emphasizes the platforms and mechanisms maintaining and promoting global security cooperation, which will help other countries to think deeply about how to deal with the common security challenges and work with China to maintain world peace and promote global security. Noting the papers are well-rounded and timely, Said Hannan Hussain, a foreign affairs commentator, said they offer "a chance for more effective diplomacy to become a bridge between the East and the West." "Only a political settlement of hotspot issues such as the Ukraine crisis through dialogue and negotiation is conducive to all and is conducive for peace," Hussein added. Before the release of the two official papers, China has shown similar position and stance in relation to global security in many occasions. As for the year-long Ukraine crisis, China has always stressed the necessity of political dialogue and peaceful consultation in solving it. During an interview with media after concluding his Europe tour, Wang Yi said the Ukraine crisis is not what China would like to see, and everything China has been doing is to facilitate peace talks. "Since the conflict broke out, China has not chosen to be a bystander or added fuel to fire and has been against exploiting the crisis." Wang added China is willing to join hands with all parties to continue the efforts for realizing peace at an early date. At the UN General Assembly Emergency Special Session on Ukraine on Thursday, Dai Bing, charge d'affaires of China's permanent mission to the United Nations, said that facilitation of a ceasefire is a top priority and the door to a political solution cannot be closed. "We support Russia and Ukraine in moving towards each other, resuming direct dialogue as soon as possible, bringing their legitimate concerns into the negotiation, setting out feasible options, and giving a chance to an early end of the crisis and the rebuilding of peace," Dai added. Besides Ukraine, China also calls for sovereignty respect and collective international efforts in solving the Palestine question. Noting the question of Palestine is at the core of the Middle East issue, Geng Shuang, China's deputy permanent representative to the UN, said at a General Assembly meeting that what is needed is firm political will and effective diplomatic action and the collective efforts of the entire international community to solve it. (Cover: The venue for Boao Forum for Asia 2022, where the Global Security Initiative was proposed, Hainan Province, China. /CFP)