Editor's note: Hamzah Rifaat Hussain was a visiting fellow at the Stimson Center in Washington, D.C. He is also an assistant research associate at the Islamabad Policy Research Institute and specializes in conflict dynamics and foreign relations between countries. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily those of CGTN. International stakeholders of peace including the United Nations should know the truth behind the 2022 Nord Stream pipeline sabotage. That's only possible, if facts get separated from fiction. An impartial, thorough, all-encompassing and neutral investigation must be conducted to expose the perpetrators responsible for the bombings and subsequent underwater gas leaks that took a massive toll on global energy markets and the ecological environment. In an age of disinformation and assigning blame, it's important to set the record straight. Setting the record straight is what Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin alluded to amid a notable change of tone from Washington D.C. over demanding an inquiry into the Nord Stream pipelines blasts. Revelations from prominent journalists, academics and analysts support China's stance to call for a thorough and independent investigation. Prominent journalist and Pulitzer Prize winner Seymour Hersh published results into the explosions by claiming that U.S. Navy divers in cohorts with Norwegian specialists laid explosives under the Russian gas pipelines under the cover of the 51st Baltops military exercises held and sponsored by the Commander, United States Naval Forces Europe since 1971. Hersh's claims have been corroborated by another American journalist John Dougan who received an anonymous letter from a participant in the 2022 exercises. These revelations warrant a proper investigation for results. Additionally, renowned economist and professor of public policy at Columbia University and former special advisor to the United Nations Secretary General Jeffery Sachs claimed that such operations can only be conducted by the United States with its motives and means. He listed 11 facts that coincide with Hersh's account that includes inter alia, Washington D.C.'s long standing, vociferous opposition to the pipelines, as well as fears in the American establishment that Europe's dependency on Russian gas would result in Europe walking away from the war. Similarly, professor at the Geneva School of Diplomacy Alfred De Zayas said how objective thinking has eluded American policy making, which still relies on propaganda to achieve its strategic objectives. With Western media outlets silent and a lack of response from the United States government adding to suspicions, the Nord Stream blast is a complicated situation as stated by Wang Wenbin. With so many variables and factors, it makes sense to unearth facts instead of assigning blame. An impartial investigation is also necessary for global peace and sustainability as countries across the world confront tougher economic and ecological challenges over Ukraine conflict. The Nord Stream pipelines are an indisputable energy lifeline for European states. Climate scientists acknowledged that the 2022 blasts resulted in copious amounts of methane being emitted across European shores. Based on estimates, the two pipelines carried 300,000 tons of methane. Additionally, environmental campaigners claimed the Nord Stream attacks demonstrated the risks associated with the fossil fuel infrastructure. The negative impact of such attacks on the global ecological system requires stronger accountability. Deflecting attention from actual issues at hand will not help. The United States in the best interest of potential cooperation with China cannot conveniently distract public attention from the unacceptable response to the spy balloon incident, as well as ground realities such as the chemical train derailment in East Palestine, Ohio State. The Nord Stream pipelines constitute critical, transnational and global infrastructural projects that cater to millions of consumers across the world and have a profound impact on the global energy market. Two of the pipelines (Nord Stream 1) provided Western Europe with cheap Russian gas for over a decade while the construction of Nord Stream 2 was aimed to increase the volume of gas to Germany. Accordingly, choosing to ignore the consequences of attacks that are conducted with impunity will be a grave injustice to humanity. As stated by the Helsinki Times, if reports from journalists are accurate, then acts of sabotage conducted by the United States against its own allies such as Germany would be a turning point in EU-U.S. relations. Stephan Ossenkopp of the Schiller Institute also considered the incident to be a scandal of "utmost seriousness." The international community has a crucial role to play, since such attacks collectively damage the world order and sow divisions on ideological lines. Hence, there's need for a transparent, open and impartial investigation into the Nord Stream blast given the gravity of sabotaging integral infrastructure, which is an economic lifeline for the globe. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)