The world today is full of uncertainties and instability, and all countries need to hold high the banner of the United Nations (UN) and unite in response, said Wang Yi, director of the Office of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee. Wang, also a member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, made the remarks on Thursday when meeting with visiting President of the 77th session of the United Nations General Assembly Csaba Korosi in Beijing. As a permanent member of the UN Security Council, China has always been a staunch supporter and active contributor to the cause of the UN, he said. Noting that the world is facing unilateralism, protectionism and hegemonism, he said that China stands ready to work with other countries to firmly uphold the UN-centered international system and the international order based on the purposes and principles of the UN Charter. At present, China has successfully overcome the challenges of the epidemic, and its economic and social operations have quickly returned to normal, Wang said, adding that China will continue to make efforts to safeguard the health of the Chinese people and make contribution to the stable operation of the world economy. China will continue to give firm support to the UN and is ready to strengthen cooperation with the UN to implement the Global Development Initiative and Global Security Initiative, advance the UN's 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and jointly address global challenges such as water resources, climate change and biodiversity, he said. Korosi thanked the Chinese government for supporting the UN and multilateralism, and congratulated China on "opening a new chapter" in its national development. He said the UN hopes to strengthen cooperation with China to jointly overcome the pandemic, address global challenges such as development financing, water resources and climate change, and promote the realization of the UN's sustainable development agenda. The two sides also exchanged views on issues of common concern. (Cover: Wang Yi (R), director of the Office of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the CPC Central Committee, holds talks with President of the 77th session of the United Nations General Assembly Csaba Korosi in Beijing, China, February 2, 2023. /Chinese Foreign Ministry)