The 2023 Mingzhu Bay Financial Summit kicked off in Guangzhou in south China on Saturday. The three-day event is held under the theme of “Building a New Fintech Highland in the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area.” Several experts offered advices on the future development of finance and technology in the Greater Bay Area. Huang Qifan, former mayor of Chongqing, believes that industrial internet has become an important development direction of the future digital economy. Industrial digital finance, or the practice of digital transformation in traditional industrial finance, is conducive to systematically solving the financing problems of micro, small and medium-sized private enterprises in the industrial chain. It is also an effective way to help enterprises to resume production after the pandemic, he added. The digital transformation of small and medium-sized financial institutions still faces problems, said Tu Guangshao, former executive vice mayor of Shanghai. He gave some suggestions on how to solve the challenges, including urging regulators to establish a unified data governance system for the industry, and small and medium-sized financial institutions should collaborate on transformation. Zhou Yanli, former vice chairman of the China Insurance Regulatory Commission, advised on the digital development of fintech and insurance institutions in the Greater Bay Area. It is important for the insurance industry to promote the digital transformation of insurance institutions, he said. He called for the speed-up of digital transformation of insurance operation and management, and further accelerate the innovation and application of digital technology. The summit officially released a report entitled "Development Opportunities, Challenges and Prospects of Digital Finance" in the Greater Bay Area. It summarized the advantages and status quo of developing digital finance in the area, as well as pinpointed challenges and future development directions. Innovation in technology and finance is the significant direction for the future development of the Greater Bay Area. The People's Bank of China, China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission and other institutions jointly issued guidelines on financial support for the construction of Hengqin Guangdong-Macao In-Depth Cooperation Zone, and Qianhai Shenzhen-Hong Kong Modern Service Industry Cooperation Zone. This has provided solid financial support for the development of the Greater Bay Area. Additionally, Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region John Lee Ka-chiu visited Guangzhou and Shenzhen on Thursday. He also highlighted the development of cooperation in technological innovation and finance within the Bay Area.