57-year-old Jiang Qi is a researcher in forestry and grassland ecology in northwest China's Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region. He is also a member of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference — or the CPPCC — China's top political advisory body. "People tend to think of it as an honor. But I think it's more of a responsibility. Members of the CPPCC National Committee make proposals from various perspectives. These suggestions can help China improve and boost progress in different sectors," said Jiang.Over the past decade, China has been accelerating efforts to pursue green development. Jiang believes more can be done to improve outcomes for farmers in agricultural regions affected by desertification and a lack of quality livestock feed. One of Jiang's new proposals this year revolves around how to grow China's livestock feed and seed industries. "China's supply of high-quality forages such as clover and rye grass relies mainly on imports. The self-sufficiency rate is less than 30 percent. This has a tremendous influence on animal husbandry and land greening," said Jiang, adding, "I think we should boost progress in the seed industry and build Ningxia and nearby regions into a national seed base for high quality livestock feed." The researcher has submitted more than 15 proposals to the CPPCC over the past five years, mostly on rural development and ecological protection. Each proposal takes months of comprehensive surveys and studies. Like a tough desert plant, the ecologist has put down his roots in Ningxia. For decades, Jiang has dedicated his expertise in restoring vegetation to the barren lands. He believes protecting the environment is important, and so is promoting productivity."We should not only consider the environment but also the economy. Otherwise, we may lose the balance that we've established. The work needs a lot of research and effort from the whole society. The biggest advantage working at the local level is that we make contact with the people directly and get to the root of the problem on the spot," said Jiang. In March, Jiang will gather with other CPPCC members across China for their annual session in Beijing. Together with his peers, he will again contribute ideas on China's development and the well-being of its 1.4 billion people. (Cover: Jiang Qi (L) examines livestock feed at a local factory in Yanchi County, Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region. /CGTN)