It may come as a surprise to know how much space clothing the astronauts truly have in space, though the only dress occasions for them are "inside the station" and "outside of the station". To begin with, they do have a limited quantity of spacesuits, the iconic clothing used by astronauts when they need to leave the space station to work in space. Currently, in the China Space Station, there are three sets of extravehicular spacesuits prepared for use. The spacesuits are the country's self-developed second-generation apparel called Feitian, meaning flying in the sky. The taikonauts aboard the space station need to share the three spacesuits for use rather than each of them bringing their own due to the high cost to develop, manufacture and transport such equipment. Li Pengwei, chief designer of information management and power system for the spacesuits at the Astronaut Center of China, said each taikonaut can adjust the size of the suit for their body, especially for the arms and legs to be more comfortable. The three sets are differentiated by the decoration color on them – red, blue and yellow. Li said the spacesuit with blue decoration wears the most among the total eight previous missions. The blue one was used six times while the red and yellow ones are both used five times. "We would like to reach this spacesuit (with blue decoration) service life first to acquire accumulative data as reference for future product development," Li said. The second-generation spacesuits are an upgrade compared with the first-generation which shows some small inconveniences during the movement. Weighing 120 kilograms, the spacesuit is embedded with a supporting system to protect the taikonauts living and working in space including temperature control, pressure adjustment, oxygen supply, power supply and communication system. Underneath the spacesuit, there's a set of liquid cooling garments, which is used to cool down the taikonauts' body temperature from overheating by circulating the water through the tubes sewn onto the garment. When the taikonauts carry out activities inside of the space station, they have a set of clothes to wear, which is most commonly seen by the public through videos. In addition, some garments are less known to the public. The orange overall called an immersion suit is prepared for the taikonauts in the return capsule, which is a body covering suit for the taikonauts when they landed in the sea during emergencies. The suit can prevent the wearer from hypothermia in cold water, especially in an open sea. The penguin suit, a regular work suit in appearance but has many elastic bands on the other side is developed to help taikonauts avoid muscle loss in a micro-gravity environment in space. The bands will be tied to spots such as the waistband, waist and feet to create a force for the body to work against. The taikonauts also have sportswear for their exercises and casual wear in the cabin. They also have a festive set with floral embroidery for special holidays.