Editor's note: Anthony Moretti is an associate professor at the Department of Communication and Organizational Leadership at Robert Morris University. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily those of CGTN. One might believe that violations of child labor laws do not happen often in the United States. But, that's wrong. They do happen often, while serious sanctions are rarely imposed on violators in the country. According to the Daily Mail, "Federal investigators have recorded a massive 37 percent jump in the number of kids working illegally in America's factories, eateries and other workplaces this past year." The newspaper wrote last November that there's a legitimate fear throughout the U.S. that child labor law violations could number in the "hundreds of thousands." Gordon Lafer, a University of Oregon professor and former policy advisor on labor for the House of Representatives, said the reason that many violations were never discovered is on account of manpower. The Department of Labor does not have a sufficient number inspectors. "The law is simple, but the chance of it being enforced is almost non-existent," Lafer added. Nonetheless the government had enforce child labor infractions recently. The Labor Department announced a few days ago that Packers Sanitation Services (PSSI) agreed to pay a $1.5 million financial penalty after a lengthy investigation proved the company kept teenagers working in unsafe conditions and often overnight. In a press release, the Labor Department said that its Wage and Hours Division "found that children were working with hazardous chemicals and cleaning meat processing equipment including back saws, brisket saws and head splitters. Investigators learned at least three minors suffered injuries while working for PSSI." Apparently, 102 children were exploited by PSSI, and the fine was about $15,000 per child, bur for some the penalties do not seem so severe enough. The U.S. should impose more serious sanctions on violators. Washington is notorious for criticizing companies abusing child workers if found outside the U.S. territories. In a press release, the Solicitor of Labor Seema Nanda said, "No child should ever be subject to the conditions found in this investigation. The courts have ... compelled this employer to change their hiring practices to ensure compliance with the law." But is the law severe enough? The website Phys.org has examined such laws around the world. Yes, the U.S. is aligned with most leading nations in protecting children until they are 18 from dangerous work. But frequent violations still happen in the country, despite its so-called "exceptionalism." Last December, the Labor Department criticized a company that owned multiple fast-food restaurants near Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. In that case, 101 children were working overtime. The fine? Only $57,000, or roughly $565 per infraction. The department's Wage and Hour District Director John DuMont said, "Permitting young workers to work excessive hours can jeopardize their safety, well-being and education. Employers who hire young workers must understand and comply with federal child labor laws or face costly consequences." Costly? When you recognize that U.S. fast food industry market size (by revenue) reached $296.6 billion as early as 2021, a fine of $57,000 against one company is not that much. Republicans think it is too much. Earlier this month, U.K. newspaper, the Guardian, reported that Republicans are leading efforts in multiple states to lessen the penalties on companies that exploit children in abusive working conditions. According to the Guardian, "in Iowa, Republican legislators introduced a bill in January to expand the types of work 14- and 15-year-olds would be permitted to do as part of approved training programs, extend allowable work hours, and exempt employers from liability if these young workers are sickened, injured or killed on the job." The Des Moines Register wrote, "The bill exempts businesses from civil liability if a student is sickened, injured or killed due to the company's negligence. A business also would be free of civil liability if a student is hurt because of the teen's negligence on the job — or is injured traveling to or from work." And the bill would allow a state official to reduce or erase any penalty levied against a company found to have exploited children. Similar efforts are being considered in Ohio and Minnesota. Minnesota has a Democrat governor. Imagine the reaction by Washington's politicians if they learned that governments of certain countries were considering laws that would look the other way if a teenager "is sickened, injured or killed" because of a company's "negligence." But in the U.S., Republicans are advancing such causes and Democrats are ignoring the alarm. One final thought: Last year, Reuters uncovered evidence that children as young as 12 were working in automobile supply chain factories in Alabama. An isolated incident? Hardly. According to Reuters, "as many as 10 Alabama plants that supply parts to Hyundai or Kia have been investigated for child labor by various state and federal law enforcement or regulatory agencies." (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)