China is ready to work with Cambodia to push the China-Cambodia comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership to a new level, and build a China-Cambodia community with a shared future, Wang Yi, director of the Office of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, said on Thursday. Wang made the remarks in Beijing, during talks with Cambodian Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, Prak Sokhonn, who is accompanying the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Cambodia Hun Sen on his visit to China. Noting the China-Cambodia friendship has withstood the test of the changing international landscape and remains unbreakable as ever, Wang, also a member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, said that Prime Minister Hun Sen's visit this time and three years ago proved that China and Cambodia are indeed good friends and partners. For his part, Sokhonn said China's successful fight against the COVID-19 pandemic and rapid economic and social recovery brought significant benefits to regional countries and the international community. Sokhonn said Cambodia is willing to further strengthen cooperation with China in various fields and deepen the building of a Cambodia-China community with a shared future. On Friday, Chinese Foreign Minister Qin Gang met with Sokhonn in Beijing, calling for China-Cambodia comprehensive strategic cooperation to yield more fruits. Qin said China stands ready to work with Cambodia to continue supporting each other's national sovereignty, security and development interests. Peaceful development is one of the distinct characteristics of Chinese modernization, Qin pointed out. Insisting on the path of peaceful development, China will adhere to the mutual benefit and win-win strategy of opening up to the outside world and neighborhood diplomacy of amity, sincerity, mutual benefit and inclusiveness, Qin said. China is willing to deepen the friendly cooperation with countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) including Cambodia, jointly safeguard international fairness and justice, and advocate development, progress, unity and integration instead of conflict and decoupling, he added. For his part, Sokhonn said Cambodia is willing to work with China to build a China-Cambodia community with a shared future, aimed at elevating the iron-clad friendship between the two countries. Taking the 65th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Cambodia and China-Cambodia Friendship Year as opportunities, Sokhonn said Cambodia expects to deepen exchanges and cooperation with China in various fields. (With input from Xinhua)