The Kansas City Chiefs defeated the Philadelphia Eagles 38-35 in Super Bowl LVII at State Farm Stadium in Glendale, Arizona, on Sunday, winning the NFL top honor for the second time in four years. The Chiefs' quarterback (QB) Patrick Mahomes became the first regular season Most Valuable Player (MVP) in the 21st century to win both the Super Bowl title and the MVP in the same season. He is also the first passing yards leader in league history to win the honor in the same season. There is simply no argument for the 27-year-old not to be named the Super Bowl MVP for the second time in his career. In his third Super Bowl appearance in four years, Mahomes completed 21 of his 27 passes for 182 yards and three touchdowns with no interception. Tight end Travis Kelce, wide receivers Kadarius Toney and Skyy Moore all connected with Mahomes to score receiving touchdowns to tie the score in the first quarter, gain the lead and extend it in the fourth quarter respectively. Of course, the Chiefs couldn't have claimed the throne without the fumble return by linebacker Nick Bolton, the rushing touchdown by running back Isiah Pacheco, as well as the six shots made by kicker Harrison Butker. The latter missed his first field goal at 42 yards in the first quarter, but managed to make the second one from 27 yards at 0:08 in the fourth quarter to make the Chiefs lead 38-35. When Mahomes was taken down in the second quarter on a scramble, he seemed in a lot of pain and so did the Chiefs and their fans because he was hurt in the right ankle, where he suffered a high ankle sprain in the American Football Conference (AFC) Divisional Round against the Jacksonville Jaguars. Mahomes jogged slowly into the tunnel during the half time break, but he returned and led the Chiefs to wipe a 10-point deficit (24-14) and win in the second half. The Eagles had a great chance to win their second Super Bowl title in franchise history. Their QB Jalen Hurts rushed 70 yards and three touchdowns on 15 carries while throwing 27-for-38 for 304 yards and one touchdown by hitting wide receiver A.J. Brown. However, the National Football Conference (NFC) champions blew their chance after making multiple mistakes. At 9:39 in the second quarter, Hurts lost the ball facing no immediate pressure before Bolton scored that fumble return. The Eagles' defensive group fell for the same trick twice when Toney and Moore caught the passes from Mahomes to walk into the end zone in the easiest way.