An article by Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, on major issues pertaining to the country's current economic work will be published on Thursday. The article by Xi, also the Chinese president and chairman of the Central Military Commission, will be published in this year's fourth issue of the Qiushi Journal, a flagship magazine of the CPC Central Committee. It was part of Xi's speech delivered at the annual Central Economic Work Conference held in Beijing from December 15 to 16, 2022, when the Chinese leaders decided on priorities for the economic work in 2023. According to the article, the country's economic work in 2023 should prioritize improving social expectations and boosting confidence in development. It said efforts should be made to boost domestic demand by prioritizing the recovery and expansion of consumption and encouraging more private investment through government investment and policy incentives. China should accelerate building a modern industrial system, make greater efforts to attract and utilize foreign capital, and effectively forestall and defuse major economic and financial risks, the article said. It urged adherence to the direction of reform of the socialist market economy, adding that the reform of state-owned assets and enterprises should be deepened to improve the core competitiveness of state-owned enterprises, and the environment for the development of private enterprises should be optimized to promote the development and growth of the private economy. The article also stressed the importance of advancing rural revitalization across the board and resolutely preventing a large-scale return to poverty. A new round of comprehensive and deepened reform should be planned, it said, adding that the high-quality development of the Belt and Road Initiative should also be promoted. It also called for the in-depth implementation of major regional strategies, coordinated regional development strategy, and promoting the green transformation of economic and social development to build a beautiful China. (Cover: Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, Chinese president and chairman of the Central Military Commission, delivers an important speech at the annual Central Economic Work Conference in Beijing, the capital of China. The conference was held in Beijing from December 15 to 16, 2022. /Xinhua)