Chinese President Xi Jinping and his wife Peng Liyuan on Friday had a cordial meeting with Cambodian King Norodom Sihamoni and Queen Mother Norodom Monineath Sihanouk at Diaoyutai State Guesthouse in Beijing. Xi called the Cambodian King and Queen Mother the participants and witnesses of China's reform and development, saying they are always concerned about China's development and are good friends of the Chinese people. Xi pointed out that in the 65 years since the establishment of diplomatic ties, the friendship between China and Cambodia has continued to flourish, adding this bilateral relationship has become a model of international relations. Xi also said he awarded the Queen Mother the Friendship Medal in 2020 to highly appreciate her special contributions to the cause of China-Cambodia friendship. Hailing the iron-clad friendship between the two countries, Xi called for carrying it forward from generation to generation and writing a new chapter in building the China-Cambodia community with a shared future. As China is advancing the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation on all fronts through a Chinese path to modernization, the Chinese president told the Cambodian King and Queen Mother that China is committed to peaceful development and win-win cooperation. China is ready to work with the Cambodian side to develop a diamond cooperation framework with six priority areas, Xi said, adding China supports Cambodia in building the "Industrial and Technological Corridor" and "Fish and Rice Corridor." Cambodian King Sihamoni and Queen Mother Monineath expressed their gratitude toward China's long-term selfless help and support to Cambodia. They said the Cambodian side appreciates the Belt and Road Initiative proposed by President Xi and the concept of building a community with a shared future for mankind. The Cambodian King and Queen Mother added they are willing to work with China to take the 65th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations as an opportunity to deepen friendly exchanges and cooperation in various fields.